               Research UI Design Options
                                08/29/2026 16:34:41
           https://chatgpt.com/c/6a91df3a-9408-83ea-bed9-ae781f0de39f



okay. so. as you know we gonna make a startup out of alice and apply f…
📘 Figma AI vs. AI-First Website Design Tools for a YC-Bound StartupFig…
im not gonna spend any money to host. not at this stage. we will use…
Got it — hosting cost is a separate constraint. I’ll focus only on AI tools f…
@Web search
Thinking   🌐 Searching the web…
The next thing I'd do is research **the actual visual identity and websit…
I’m pulling this from two directions: the actual ALICE/Friday project…
@Web search do more research on the design from the current in last 3…
I’m narrowing this to YC AI companies from roughly 2023–2026 that…
@Web search ok. seems like we struct a serious issue on the novelity of…
I’m treating this as a competitive-thesis audit, not a design exercise. I’…
One additional thing I would change immediately: **stop calling…
@Web search
I’m going one level deeper than the last audit: actual system…
@Web search okay. we gonna start like this. do deep research on their…
I’m going to treat this as an architecture due-diligence pass before we…
The first thing we should build now is the **G+ experimental…
This handoff is exactly the missing authority I needed. I’m going to use …
ALICE_KAGGLE_REMOTE_COMPUTE_HANDOFF_v0.2(3).md @Web search…
Thinking ● Assessing the Kaggle plan I’m concluding Stage G should…
@Web search and we wont change our repo until stage G+ is finished?
Not quite. The right rule is “don’t ratify the new architecture on main…
@Web search so, no company website for now either?
Thinking   🌐 Searching the web ycombinator.comnews.ycombinator.com…
And we can now go back to the thing we were doing before this…
Yes — that should become a formal positioning rule for both the websit…

                     🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                               1 / 456
@Web search connect figma ai though mcp. also, the name of our…
I’ll check both sides: whether ChatGPT can connect to Figma through an…
Thinking   🌐 Searching the web developers.figma.comhelp.figma.com ●…
@Web search first generate the updated and full idea (which you alread…
I’m going to do this in two parts: first I’ll freeze a complete v0.1 website…
Your connected Figma account is on Starter with a View seat, so the like…
Good news: the MCP can write to your Figma file despite the Starter/Vie…
@Web search complete the full website then gimme the files so i can ru…
I’m turning the v0.1 concept into a real runnable site, not just exporting…
@Web search no. i dont like it at all. its so bland, doesn't catch the…
Yeah — the problem is clear. I over-indexed on “serious research…
@Web search i think we should make it like a comic. (specially iron man…
I like the direction, with one important constraint: we should borrow the…
@Web search good start. but i think we gotta go more in depth with the…
I’m going to slow this down exactly the way you’re asking: first build th…
[Image: 30cace21-36dc-48ef-9f29-e502e032be50.png] @Web search…
Thinking ● Planning page updates I’m preparing a page-by-page conte…
@Web search i see you planned 8 more pages. take long time and do…
I’m going one-by-one. For a page this important, building all eight at on…
@Web search you should definitely do the UI design using figma mcp or…
I found the right correction: the Roadmap page needs far less reading…
@Web search bulit compare
I’m building Compare as a real page now, not just a matrix. I’m using th…
@Web search can u do a deeper check. do we really need this many…
Thinking ● Inspected generated site plan files and compared related…
The next useful step is actually to refactor what already exists before…
Thinking ● Preparing the website update I’m updating the existing v0.7…
@Web search ok. back to deep research. The way we progressing and…
Thinking   🌐 Searching the web…
@Web search but im applying for yc literally next month. i was just…
Thinking   🌐 Searching the web ycombinator.com ● Assessing YC…
                    🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                               2 / 456
so what should be the work plan then? we doing stage G now. when do…
Thinking   🌐 Searching the web ycombinator.com ● Planning the paralle…
One thing I'd start this week…
Thinking ● Assessing the architecture I’m checking whether Fable shoul…
ok. changed my mind. even the initial fable should not have any…
Thinking ● Assessing mission timing I’m concluding that a genuinely…
**No-disposable-cognition rule** -------------------------------- Fable Sleight…
Yes. I’m treating the No-Disposable-Cognition Rule as a governing Fable…
Yes. We are sticking with that plan. I’m treating the No-Disposable-…




                     🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                 3 / 456
                           okay. so. as you know we gonna make a startup out of
                           alice and apply for the y combinator. its time to make
                           the official company website. I want to do the ui design
                           with figma ai, is that the best option or there's better
                           option do a deep research which would be best for myy
                           startup@Deep research
                                                                      8/28/2026, 2:19:24 PM




📘 Figma AI vs. AI-First Website Design Tools for a YC-Bound Startup

  Figma AI vs. AI-First Website Design Tools for
  a YC-Bound Startup
  Executive summary
  Bottom line: Figma AI is the strongest design system, collaborative
  design, prototyping, and developer-handoff environment in this
  comparison, but I would not make Figma alone the default choice for
  your startup’s official public website as of August 28, 2026. Figma has
  expanded far beyond static mockups: Figma Make can produce code-backed
  prototypes, Dev Mode and MCP connect design context to engineering, and
  Figma Sites can now design and publish responsive websites. However, Figma
  Sites is still officially in open beta, which matters for a company website that
  needs dependable publishing, SEO, accessibility, and investor-facing polish. 1
  For a startup preparing a Y Combinator application, my preferred architecture
  is:
  Figma AI → Framer → production domain
  Use Figma AI as the design source of truth—for visual exploration, brand
  rules, components, responsive layouts, product screenshots, and critique—
  and Framer as the production website layer for responsive
  implementation, animation, CMS, SEO, accessibility settings, hosting, and
  rapid founder-controlled edits. Framer’s current Basic plan is $10/month billed


                        🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                    4 / 456
yearly and Pro is $30/month; it provides custom domains, built-in SEO, live
collaboration, CMS, and AI agents on the same visual canvas. 2
If you insist on one tool only, my recommendation changes to Framer, not
Figma. Framer has less mature product-design collaboration and developer
handoff than Figma, but it eliminates the design-to-build transition for a
relatively simple startup marketing website. Figma wins the broader design-
tool scoring matrix below because it is exceptionally strong across design
systems, components, collaboration, prototyping, plugins, and developer
handoff; Framer wins the narrower question, “What is the fastest low-risk path
to a polished company website?” 3
For the four requested use cases:

Use case                     Recommendation            Why

Best overall for a YC-       Figma AI + Framer         Highest combination of
bound startup                                          design quality, fast iteration,
                                                       founder collaboration, and
                                                       production-site maturity

Fastest MVP iteration        Framer AI                 Prompt/design/edit/publish
                                                       loop stays in one tool; no
                                                       handoff step

Highest-fidelity investor-   Figma AI + Framer Pro     Figma for deliberate visual
facing site                                            system and polish; Framer
                                                       for responsive motion and
                                                       production delivery

Tightest sensible budget     Framer Basic at $10/mo,   Custom-domain production
                             optionally paired with    site at low recurring cost;
                             Figma Starter             Figma Starter can remain
                                                       the free ideation layer 2


A major strategic point is that YC does not appear to reward ornamental
web design for its own sake. YC's own application advice emphasizes
straightforward, matter-of-fact explanation of what the company does and
focuses heavily on founders; its application-video guidance explicitly says the
video is for introducing the founders rather than functioning as a promotional


                         🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                   5 / 456
or demo video. My inference is that your site should optimize for immediate
comprehension, product proof, credibility, and speed of iteration,
rather than agency-style visual spectacle. 4
That means the winning website is probably not the one with the most AI-
generated decoration. It is the one where an investor can understand, within
seconds:
What is this? Who is it for? Why does it matter? Can I see the
product? Why will this team win? What should I do next?

Assumptions and decision framework
You specified startup constraints but left team size, budget, and technology
stack unspecified. I therefore treat team size, exact budget ceiling, and
tech stack as having no specific constraint. I nevertheless weight the
analysis for the realities you did specify: fast iteration, likely-small-team
operation, reasonable cost sensitivity, and a need for investor-facing polish.
I also assume that “official company website” means more than a disposable
prototype: the site should support a custom domain, responsive
mobile/desktop layouts, reasonable SEO, accessibility, analytics or later
analytics integration, stable hosting or export, and frequent copy/design
changes without rebuilding from scratch.
The scoring model uses a 1–10 scale. Scores are my analytical judgments
based on the capabilities and limitations documented in the cited sources,
rather than vendor-published benchmark scores. Because this is a YC-bound
startup rather than a large enterprise, I weighted speed and output quality
most heavily.

                                                      What matters for your
Criterion                  Weight                     startup

Speed                      12%                        Idea → credible live page
                                                      with minimal coordination

Quality of output          12%                        Does it look intentionally
                                                      designed rather than “AI-
                                                      generated”?



                      🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                6 / 456
                                                   What matters for your
Criterion                    Weight                startup

Customization                8%                    Ability to escape generic
                                                   templates and tune visual
                                                   details

Collaboration                6%                    Founder/designer/engineer
                                                   can review and edit
                                                   together

Developer handoff            8%                    Design context survives
                                                   translation to production

Prototyping                  6%                    Ability to test interactions
                                                   before building

Component libraries          5%                    Reusable navbar, buttons,
                                                   cards, testimonials, etc.

Accessibility                5%                    Semantic structure, alt text,
                                                   keyboard behavior, contrast
                                                   workflow

Design-system support        6%                    Variables/tokens/styles/com
                                                   ponents and brand
                                                   consistency

Cost                         8%                    Practical startup spend, not
                                                   merely existence of a free
                                                   trial

Learning curve               6%                    Founder can become
                                                   productive without specialist
                                                   training

Plugin/ecosystem             4%                    Templates, integrations,
                                                   community resources

Export/code generation       6%                    Portability and engineering
                                                   ownership




                         🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                             7 / 456
                                                         What matters for your
Criterion                    Weight                      startup

Security/privacy             5%                          Treatment of unreleased
                                                         product/company
                                                         information

YC fit                       3%                          Optimizes clarity, proof and
                                                         iteration rather than
                                                         unnecessary ceremony


Two distinctions are especially important.
First, “design-to-code” is not the same as “production-ready code.” A
2026 research benchmark on Figma-to-code systems found that even leading
multimodal models still had limitations in responsiveness and code
maintainability, despite strong visual fidelity. Generated front ends therefore
deserve human QA rather than blind deployment. 5
Second, AI design generation is most useful as an accelerator, not an
arbiter of taste. Figma itself described its 2026 direction by noting that AI
had successfully “lowered the floor” while acknowledging that raising the
creative ceiling is a different challenge; its recent releases consequently
combine AI agents with direct manipulation, motion, code layers and other
expressive tools. 6
For YC specifically, I would translate the evaluation criteria into five
operational principles:
Clarity beats novelty. YC's application guidance encourages concise,
matter-of-fact descriptions of what the company does. 4
Show product rather than decorating around product. Your hero should
ideally contain a screenshot, short product animation, interactive demo, or
concrete output.
Iteration speed has real value. Your positioning may change while
preparing the application, interviewing users, or reacting to feedback. A site
that founders can update in 20 minutes is better than a theoretically perfect
site that requires an engineering deployment every time the headline
changes.


                       🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                    8 / 456
Investor polish still matters indirectly. YC may not select companies
based on website aesthetics, but a clear, coherent site can strengthen
perceived competence when investors, candidates, users, or partners search
for the company. This is an inference about stakeholder perception rather
than an explicit YC criterion.
Do not expose confidential strategy to an AI tool casually. Prompts
about unreleased technical differentiation, customer contracts, credentials,
proprietary source code, or sensitive user data deserve more scrutiny than
public landing-page copy.

Comparative analysis of the leading tools
I shortlisted Figma AI/Figma Sites, Framer AI, Webflow AI, Builder.io
Fusion, v0, Wix Harmony/Wix Studio, Uizard, and Google Stitch. This
gives seven substantive alternatives to Figma.
I did not shortlist Adobe XD as a primary contender. Adobe continued issuing
an XD version in 2026, but its recent release activity has largely centered on
fixes and workflow maintenance rather than positioning XD as a new AI-first
website-production system; Adobe Firefly is much more compelling as a
generative asset system than as an end-to-end UI/UX and website platform. 7
Figma AI, Figma Make, Dev Mode and Figma Sites
Figma is now much broader than the pre-2024 mental model of “a
collaborative UI mockup tool.” Its current AI workflow can generate design
directions, refine work, search context, create code-backed prototypes in
Figma Make, and connect designs to production tooling through Dev Mode,
Code Connect and the Figma MCP server. Figma Sites adds direct responsive
website publishing, CMS capabilities and interactions. 8
For your use case, its biggest advantage is that nothing else in this
comparison matches the depth of the design canvas plus
collaboration plus component/design-system infrastructure.
Professional plans support team libraries; Figma's workflow includes reusable
components, variables and developer inspection; Dev Mode can map design
components to actual production components through Code Connect. 3
Figma Make is also materially more useful than a static AI mockup generator.
Figma describes Make as code-backed and visually editable, with support for

                      🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                              9 / 456
design systems through Make kits/npm, comments, version history and direct
editing. Vendor-selected case studies report dramatic cycle-time
improvements—Affirm, for example, says prototyping workflows that once
took weeks could be compressed to hours—but these should be interpreted as
marketing case studies rather than controlled independent benchmarks. 9
The developer handoff is first-rate. Even free viewers can inspect
measurements and properties, copy CSS/iOS/Android snippets and export
assets, while paid Dev Mode adds deeper design-to-development workflows
and MCP-based structured design context. 10 A recent G2 review likewise
highlighted reduced handoff friction and faster interactive idea validation,
consistent with Figma’s primary strength as a shared product-development
workspace. 11
Pricing is startup-friendly at the entry level but can rise as roles proliferate.
Starter is free; a Professional Full seat is $16/month, Dev seat $12/month,
and Collab seat $3/month. Full Professional seats currently include 3,000
monthly AI credits; Starter and non-Full seats receive 500. The AI agent itself
is presently free during beta. 10
The complication is Figma Sites. It can now publish fully responsive websites
and supports custom domains and website settings including titles/social
metadata; Figma also exposes HTML tags and accessibility properties for
improving a site's semantic structure. 12 But Figma explicitly labels Sites an
open beta, and live-domain publishing requires a paid plan and Full seat. 1
That beta status makes me less comfortable making it your startup’s long-
lived web infrastructure than Framer or Webflow today. A recent Figma
community report also described Google indexing trouble on a Figma Sites
business site; that is only an anecdote, not evidence of a platform-wide
defect, but it illustrates the operational uncertainty that comes with a beta
publishing product. 13
On privacy, Figma provides organizational controls over whether customer
content may be used to improve AI models; its AI terms make the training
toggle consequential. Figma also documents encryption and established
security controls, and its paid enterprise-oriented platform carries mature
compliance practices. 14



                       🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                10 / 456
Verdict versus the alternatives: Figma is the best design workspace
here. It is not yet my favorite single-tool production website platform,
chiefly because Sites is still beta.
Framer AI
Framer is the strongest direct challenger for this particular task because it is
less concerned with being a universal product-design system and more
optimized around designing and shipping excellent websites. Its current
platform combines a visual canvas, responsive layouts, CMS, SEO, hosting,
interactions, AI agents and collaborative editing. 15
That narrower scope is a strength for a YC company site. A founder can
generate or lay out a page, edit the same live design visually, test it, connect
a domain, and publish without an explicit “handoff” phase. Framer supports
real-time collaboration, and current pricing allows viewers/comments without
additional cost while paid editors are separate seats. 2
The current yearly-billed plans are unusually attractive for startups: Free $0,
Basic $10/month, Pro $30/month, and Enterprise custom. Basic includes a
custom domain, two CMS collections, 50 GB bandwidth and built-in SEO; Pro
adds ten CMS collections, 100 GB bandwidth, redirects, staging and branching
with previews. AI allocations are 1,000 credits on Basic and 3,000 on Pro
according to the current pricing page. 2
Framer's recent accessibility tooling is notably better than the simplistic
“website builders are automatically accessible” story. Its accessibility panel
lets builders set semantic tags, alt text, custom tab order and reduced-motion
behavior. 16 Its marketplace also contains accessibility-checking plugins that
can scan pages within the canvas. 17
Independent reviewers have generally emphasized Framer’s ability to produce
attractive responsive sites quickly and its straightforward publishing workflow,
while recognizing that it is less suited than deeper CMS/development systems
to highly complex application logic. 18 Framer's own startup/customer stories
show organizations using it for high-frequency marketing changes; Planhat,
for example, reports dozens of website updates per week, though again this is
a vendor-selected case study. 19




                      🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                11 / 456
Security maturity is good: Framer documents SOC 2 and ISO-oriented controls
in its security materials. 20 The caveat is that in the public sources reviewed
for this report, Framer did not provide as explicit an AI-training
statement as Webflow or Builder does. For highly confidential prompts, I
would verify the current contractual treatment before importing sensitive
material.
The main drawback against Figma is developer ownership. Framer is
wonderful when Framer itself is your production layer, but it is not as
strong a neutral design-to-arbitrary-codebase handoff environment as Figma
Dev Mode, Builder.io or v0. That matters much less for a five-page startup
marketing site than it does for your core product UI.
Verdict: best single tool for your website and the strongest production
partner to Figma.
Webflow AI
Webflow is the most mature “professional web-development platform without
conventional hand coding” option in the comparison. Current Webflow AI can
generate a customized site from a prompt, generate sections based on the
existing site's components/design system, create reusable code components,
generate copy, and run SEO/AEO-oriented improvements. 21
Webflow's customization ceiling is higher than most no-code builders. It
supports visual layout control, CMS, interactions including GSAP-based
tooling, custom code, APIs and advanced hosting options. That makes it
better than Framer when a “marketing site” is gradually becoming a
substantial content platform. 21
Accessibility is a particular Webflow strength. Its Audit panel checks high-
impact issues such as missing alt text, non-descriptive links, heading
structure and duplicate IDs, while its broader accessibility guidance is derived
from WCAG. Webflow explicitly warns that automated checks are not a
substitute for comprehensive accessibility review, which is the technically
responsible position. 22
Webflow's security/privacy posture is among the strongest of the group. Its AI
documentation says Webflow does not use customer data to train



                      🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                12 / 456
generative AI models, and it maintains SOC 2 Type II and ISO
27001/27017/27018-oriented controls. 23
Independent reviews tend to praise Webflow for professional flexibility and
clean, highly customizable results while consistently flagging its steeper
learning curve. 24 Vendor case studies show that relatively lean teams can
execute major migrations quickly—for example, Arkose Labs reported going
live in roughly three-and-a-half weeks and Backbase described a two-person
team completing a migration in weeks—but those are substantially larger
efforts than your likely startup landing page. 25
The biggest YC-startup downside is overhead. Webflow's pricing is more
complicated because Site and Workspace plans are separate, and
Webflow restructured its site pricing in May 2026. Its current calculator shows,
for example, a new Premium Site plan at $23/month billed annually in a
migration example, but actual totals depend on your site and Workspace
requirements. 26
Verdict: better than Framer if you foresee a substantial
CMS/content/marketing operation; worse for a founder who simply wants a
polished YC-era company site online this weekend.
Builder.io Fusion / Visual Copilot
Builder.io is the most engineering-oriented alternative in this set. Rather than
asking designers to stop at a mockup, Builder's Fusion and Visual Copilot
workflows are built around connecting AI visual development to real
repositories, frameworks, components and design systems. It supports
GitHub/GitLab/Bitbucket integrations, Figma import, a visual editor, real-time
multiplayer and code-oriented workflows. 27
Its killer capability is code translation. Visual Copilot supports outputs
including React, Vue, Svelte, Angular and HTML, can reuse existing code
components, and can adapt to styling systems rather than locking all
generated UI to one framework. 28 Builder also supports custom instructions
for semantic/accessibility-conscious output, including headings, ARIA,
keyboard interaction and alt text. 29
This is stronger than Figma when your primary question is: “How do I get
this design into a codebase we own?” It is weaker than Figma when the


                      🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                13 / 456
question is: “Where should designers, founders and PMs explore
visual directions and maintain our canonical design system?” In fact,
Builder's own workflow integrates deeply with Figma rather than making
Figma irrelevant. 30
Current Fusion pricing is Free $0, Pro $24/user/month, Team
$40/user/month, Enterprise custom. Pro includes 500 monthly agent credits;
Team adds role types, comments/peer reviews and an AI-training opt-out;
Enterprise adds design-system intelligence, privacy mode, RBAC and training
off by default. Notably, Builder's current pricing matrix says AI training is on
for Free and Pro, optional to disable on Team, and off on Enterprise. 27
Builder also maintains SOC 2 Type II controls, TLS 1.2+ in transit and AES-256
at rest under its current security addendum. 31 Verified G2 reviewers have
praised the combination of visual editing and deployment into an
organization's own infrastructure, although the review population is far
smaller than Figma's. 32
Verdict: excellent if your engineering team already has a real frontend stack
and wants to preserve code ownership. Overkill for a straightforward YC
application website with no specified stack.
v0 by Vercel
v0 approaches the problem from the opposite direction of Figma: the
generated artifact is code first. It can build high-fidelity interfaces and full-
stack applications from prompts or visual input, supports Design Mode,
synchronizes with GitHub and deploys to Vercel. It can also consume Figma
references as inputs to implementation. 33
For an engineer-founder using React/Next.js, v0 may be faster than every
design-centric tool in the report. You can prompt a real landing page, get
editable code, push it to GitHub and continue engineering from there instead
of recreating a mockup manually. Product Hunt and practitioner reviews
frequently highlight rapid generation of clean React/Tailwind-style interfaces
as its central strength. 34
But this advantage is stack-dependent. Because you specified no particular
technology stack, I cannot assume that React/Next.js/Vercel is desirable. v0



                       🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                14 / 456
is also weaker than Figma for collaborative visual exploration, broad
component-library administration and nontechnical stakeholder review.
Current pricing is Free $0, with $5 monthly credits and a seven-message-per-
day limit; Plus $30/user/month; Business $100/user/month; and
Enterprise custom. Plus adds more model access and collaboration; Business
makes model-training opt-out the default; Enterprise states customer data is
never used for training and adds SAML SSO/RBAC. 35 Vercel's own AI terms
caution that generated output can be incomplete or buggy and requires
human review—which is exactly how I would treat production AI-generated
frontend code. 36
Verdict: a potential number-one choice for an engineer-led React
startup, but not the default recommendation under your “no specific tech-
stack constraint” assumption.
Wix Harmony / Wix Studio
It would be a mistake to evaluate Wix using only the old “Wix ADI” stereotype.
In January 2026 Wix introduced Harmony, its AI-forward editor combining
generative/vibe-style creation with direct visual editing; Wix Studio also
provides AI-assisted responsive layouts, code and content tooling. 37
Wix is exceptionally easy to get to production. AI can generate an initial site,
the visual editor can refine it, and the same ecosystem provides hosting,
domain management, forms, analytics/marketing tools and business
functionality. 38 It also offers an accessibility wizard based on WCAG 2.2 tasks
that scans pages and guides remediation, while correctly warning that
automated tooling cannot guarantee legal compliance. 39
Current annual pricing is approximately Free, Light $17/month, Core $29,
Business $39, and Business Elite $159, with higher plans increasing
storage, collaborators, commerce and developer capabilities. 40 Wix also
maintains substantial platform-level security certifications, including SOC 2-
oriented controls and PCI-related protections for relevant commerce
workflows. 41
Third-party reviews in 2026 continue to praise Wix's usability, templates and
broad app ecosystem while identifying limitations compared with professional



                      🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                15 / 456
development environments in areas such as deeper responsive or code
control. 42
Versus Figma, the tradeoff is straightforward: far easier business-site
operations; much weaker neutral design-system/developer-handoff
story. You are building “a Wix website,” whereas a Figma design can feed
many implementation stacks.
Verdict: compelling for a nontechnical founder needing an operational
business site, but Framer produces a better combination of startup aesthetic,
visual control and simplicity for this specific project.
Uizard
Uizard is strongest at the earliest stage of the funnel: turning a textual
description, screenshot or rough sketch into editable screens and prototypes.
Autodesigner 2.0 can generate multi-screen designs from conversational
requests and modify screens, components and themes. 43
It is arguably the easiest tool here to learn. Its collaboration model includes
unlimited viewers/commenters, and its paid plan now includes CSS/React
developer handoff, making it more practical than older descriptions of Uizard
as “just a wireframing tool.” 44
Pricing is excellent: Free, Pro $12/month annually, Business $39/month,
and Enterprise custom. Pro includes 500 AI generations, up to 100 projects
and React/CSS handoff; Business increases AI generations to 5,000 and adds
custom branding; Enterprise adds unlimited AI, teams and design-system
setup. 44
User reviews commonly praise Uizard's speed and approachability. The
counterpoint, visible in practitioner discussions, is that teams often regard it
as particularly good for ideation/prototyping rather than their highest-fidelity
final design environment. 45
Its privacy documentation describes organizational and GDPR-oriented
controls, while its Enterprise plan advertises an AI data SLA, but the public
enterprise-security story is not as comprehensively surfaced as Figma,
Webflow or Builder in the material reviewed. 46
Verdict: excellent for turning your founders’ idea into a clickable prototype
within hours; not my choice for the final investor-facing company site.

                      🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                16 / 456
Google Stitch
Stitch is the most interesting emerging wildcard. Google Labs currently
describes it as an AI design canvas that converts natural language into
high-fidelity UI that teams can iterate on and collaborate around. 47
Google's recent work has expanded Stitch into interactive prototypes; Google
describes its in-browser prototypes as React/Tailwind mini-apps/components,
and its research materials show multiplayer collaboration. 48
Google has also been working on portable design context through DESIGN.md
and broader code/design integrations, which makes Stitch more serious than
a simple screenshot generator. Its API-oriented experimentation can return
structured UI output including HTML and previews. 49
Third-party coverage in 2026 has been enthusiastic about Stitch's “vibe
design” approach, high-fidelity canvas and rapid UI generation. 50
The reason it does not rank higher is product maturity and governance
uncertainty. Google itself continues to list Stitch under Google Labs'
“experiments,” explicitly framing Labs as a place to test emerging AI
products. 47 I also could not verify a conventional standalone Stitch pricing
ladder comparable with Figma, Framer or Uizard from the current official
material reviewed. For a production company website, I would not make an
experimental design product a dependency unless the generated code is
exported into infrastructure you control.
Verdict: absolutely worth experimenting with for concepts; not yet my
recommendation as the canonical startup website workflow.

Recommendation matrix
The following matrix scores the tools against every criterion you requested. A
10 means unusually strong for a YC-bound small startup; it does not mean
objectively perfect. The weighted total uses the weights defined earlier.




                      🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                              17 / 456
                                                De
                                        Co      si                   Co
                              De        m       gn              Ec   de
            Q     Cu          v         po      sy              os   /e   Se          Wei
       Sp   ua    st   Co     ha Pr     ne      st         Le   ys   xp   cu          ght
Too    ee   lit   o    lla    nd ot     nt   A1 e  Co      ar   te   or   rit   YC    ed
l      d    y     m    b      off o     s    1y m st       n    m    t    y     fit   /10

Fig    9    10    10   10     9    10   10   8   10   8    7    10   8    9     9     9.1
ma                                                                                    6
AI /
Sit
es

Bui    9    9     9    8      10   8    9    9   10   7    6    8    10   9     8     8.6
lde                                                                                   7
r.io
Fus
ion

Fra    10   9     9    9      7    9    8    9   8    9    9    8    6    9     10    8.6
me                                                                                    6
r AI

v0     10   9     9    7      10   9    8    7   8    8    7    8    10   7     9     8.5
                                                                                      9

Go     10   9     9    8      9    9    7    6   8    9*   9    6    9    6     8     8.4
ogl                                                                                   5
e
Stit
ch

We     8    9     10   8      8    8    9    9   9    7    6    9    8    10    9     8.4
bfl                                                                                   1
ow
AI

Wi     9    8     8    8      7    7    8    9   8    8    9    9    6    10    8     8.1
x                                                                                     1
Har
mo
ny/


                             🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                  18 / 456
                                                 De
                                         Co      si                   Co
                             De          m       gn              Ec   de
           Q     Cu          v           po      sy              os   /e   Se           Wei
      Sp   ua    st   Co     ha Pr       ne      st         Le   ys   xp   cu           ght
Too   ee   lit   o    lla    nd ot       nt   A1 e  Co      ar   te   or   rit   YC     ed
l     d    y     m    b      off o       s    1y m st       n    m    t    y     fit    /10
Stu
dio

Uiz   10   7     7    8      6    9      7    6   7     9   10   5    6    7     8      7.6
ard                                                                                     4


*Google Stitch's cost score reflects apparently low-friction experimental
access, not a verified long-term production pricing tier; that uncertainty
is itself a reason not to choose it as infrastructure. Google currently presents
Stitch as a Labs experiment. 47
The most important thing about this table is that the highest mathematical
score does not automatically equal the best publishing tool. Figma
earns points across product-design dimensions that matter greatly to a
startup over its lifetime: design systems, developer handoff, prototyping,
plugins and collaboration. For the narrower company-website problem, Framer
avoids an entire class of translation overhead.
The comparative pattern is clearer if tools are grouped by what they optimize:

Tool family                      Best examples               What it optimizes

Design source of truth           Figma                       Visual quality, components,
                                                             team collaboration, design
                                                             systems

Design-and-publish               Framer, Webflow, Wix        Rapid production site
website                                                      ownership

Design-to-code / code-           Builder.io, v0              Engineering ownership and
first                                                        real source code

Rapid concept/prototype          Uizard, Stitch              AI-assisted ideation and
                                                             early validation


                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                     19 / 456
This is why the answer to “Is Figma AI the best?” is yes for the design
layer, no for the entire website lifecycle.
On accessibility specifically, Webflow, Framer and Wix currently provide more
explicit website-level checking/remediation workflows than Figma Design
alone: Webflow has an Audit panel, Framer has its accessibility panel, and Wix
has a WCAG-informed Accessibility Wizard. Figma Sites does let authors add
correct HTML tags and accessibility properties, but that still requires
conscious configuration. 22
On privacy, Webflow is unusually straightforward because it explicitly
states that customer data is not used to train generative AI models. Builder is
also transparent but plan-dependent: training is on for Free/Pro, opt-out on
Team and off on Enterprise. v0's strongest training guarantees similarly begin
at its more expensive Business/Enterprise tiers. 23
On developer portability, Builder and v0 beat Framer/Wix, while Figma
remains an unusually good neutral bridge because Dev Mode, Code Connect
and MCP can connect design data with a separate codebase rather than
requiring that Figma itself host the final product. 3

Final recommendation for the YC context
Best overall: Figma AI plus Framer
This is the configuration I would choose for your startup.
Figma solves the strategic design problem: establish your typography, color
variables, spacing, responsive layout, components, product imagery and
variants in an environment that remains useful later when you are designing
the actual product. Framer solves the tactical web problem: take that visual
direction and operate the public marketing site without creating a permanent
engineering dependency. Figma's current Professional Full seat costs
$16/month; Framer Basic costs $10/month or Pro $30/month annually. 10
For a very small team, you do not necessarily need both paid tiers
immediately. You can design on Figma Starter and put the production site on
Framer Basic, then upgrade Figma once shared libraries/Dev Mode/expanded
AI usage justify it. Figma gives Starter users 500 monthly AI credits, while live
Figma Sites publishing requires a paid plan. 10


                      🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                 20 / 456
I would choose Framer Pro instead of Basic only if staging, branching,
redirects, greater CMS capacity or more advanced ongoing marketing
operations matter. 2


Fastest MVP iteration: Framer AI
For a founder who wants to go from a one-paragraph brief to a credible live
URL with the fewest context switches, Framer is the winner.
Uizard and Stitch can arguably generate concepts just as quickly, and v0 can
be even faster for a competent React engineer, but Framer gives you the
shortest generic path from idea → visual edits → responsiveness →
custom domain → publish without assuming a technical stack. 2
If your founding team turns out to be strongly engineering-led and already
committed to Next.js/React/Vercel, I would revisit this category and likely
choose v0.


Highest-fidelity investor-facing result: Figma AI plus Framer
Pro
Figma's component/design-system precision is still valuable when the goal is
not merely “nice enough” but a site whose spacing, typography, states,
product imagery and responsiveness have been deliberately art-directed.
Framer then lets you reproduce that aesthetic in a production environment
with interactions, responsive design and staging. 3
This is preferable to letting an AI site generator make every visual decision.
Use AI for breadth of exploration—five hero alternatives, ten CTA variants,
three feature-section structures—and human judgment for selection and
refinement.

Best for a tight budget: Framer Basic, with free Figma as
optional design support
For an official site, free plans often create a false economy because they
restrict custom domains or are intended for experimentation/noncommercial
use. Framer's Free plan is positioned for noncommercial use, while its



                      🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                              21 / 456
$10/month Basic plan provides a custom domain, built-in SEO and 50 GB of
bandwidth. 51
That makes it a better low-cost production choice than Wix Light at roughly
$17/month or a Figma Professional seat at $16/month when website hosting—
not product design—is the immediate need. 40
Because you are a university student, it is also worth noting that Figma
maintains a free Education program for eligible students and educators. That
can reduce your design tooling cost if you qualify, although you should not
assume that Education access substitutes for the paid-plan requirement
attached to Figma Sites live publishing during the beta. 52
My YC-specific site architecture would be deliberately simple:
Home: one-sentence description → product visual/demo → three concrete
benefits → evidence/traction → founders/company → CTA.
Product: enough detail to prove that something substantive exists.
About: founders, insight, why-now story; not a corporate-history essay.
Optional: customers/use cases, security page if B2B buyers need it, and a
short blog/resources section only if you already have useful content.
Avoid a homepage full of vague language such as “reimagining the future of
intelligent experiences.” YC's own guidance rewards matter-of-fact
explanation; the same discipline is useful for investors and early customers. 4

Implementation plan for Figma AI plus Framer
For a straightforward four-to-six-page startup website with an existing rough
product story, I estimate roughly 17–32 person-hours, typically
compressible into two to four focused calendar days for a small founding
team. Those are planning estimates, not vendor benchmarks.
The process should deliberately front-load messaging rather than visual
decoration.

Stage               Estimated effort    Primary role        Deliverable

Positioning brief   1–2 h               Founder/CEO         Audience, problem,
                                                            one-sentence



                      🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                               22 / 456
Stage                 Estimated effort   Primary role       Deliverable
                                                            description, CTA,
                                                            proof

Information           2–3 h              Founder/PM         Page structure and
architecture + copy                                         section-level copy
skeleton

Figma AI visual       2–4 h              Founder/designer   3–5 homepage
exploration                                                 directions

Mini design system    2–4 h              Designer/founder   Type, colors,
                                                            spacing, buttons,
                                                            cards, nav,
                                                            responsive rules

Final responsive      3–5 h              Designer           Desktop/mobile
Figma composition                                           canonical design

Build/refine in       4–8 h              Designer/founder   Production pages,
Framer                                                      interactions, CMS if
                                                            needed

Accessibility, SEO,   2–4 h              Designer +         Semantic structure,
responsive QA                            engineer/founder   contrast, alt text,
                                                            metadata, mobile QA

Founder review and    1–2 h              Founders           Custom domain and
publish                                                     production launch


Figma's Community provides website templates and UI kits that can
accelerate the design-system stage; for handoff, use Dev Mode and Code
Connect when actual application components need to map to production. 8 In
Framer, use its accessibility panel before launch; an accessibility-checker
plugin from the Framer Marketplace can add another canvas-level pass,
though neither automated check should replace a quick keyboard and screen-
reader-oriented manual test. 16
If you later decide that the marketing site should live in your application
repository rather than Framer, keep the Figma source clean and migrate the
implementation through Builder.io Visual Copilot or v0 rather than relying


                       🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                               23 / 456
on screenshot-to-code reconstruction. Builder's Figma plugin can transport
designs toward code, while v0 can consume Figma references and
synchronize the resulting implementation to GitHub. 30
The implementation timeline looks like this:

  flowchart LR
      A[Founder positioning brief<br/>1–2h] --> B[IA + copy
  skeleton<br/>2–3h]
      B --> C[Figma AI exploration<br/>2–4h]
      C --> D[Select direction<br/>30–60m]
      D --> E[Components + design system<br/>2–4h]
      E --> F[Responsive final design<br/>3–5h]
      F --> G[Build in Framer<br/>4–8h]
      G --> H[Accessibility + SEO + mobile QA<br/>2–4h]
      H --> I[Founder review<br/>1–2h]
      I --> J[Custom domain + publish]
      J --> K[Iterate from user / investor feedback]
      K --> B


The roles do not require a large team. With no team-size constraint specified,
I would structure responsibility as follows: one founder owns
positioning/copy; one design-capable founder or designer owns
Figma and Framer; one engineer performs a short
technical/accessibility/performance review if available. A two-person
founding team could execute the entire workflow themselves.
For Figma AI, prompts should give the model business context, hierarchy,
constraints and evaluation criteria, not merely aesthetic adjectives.
Figma's current AI direction supports generating and refining design directions
within the shared canvas, while First Draft/agent-style workflows are intended
to accelerate editable starting points. 53
A strong first landing-page prompt would be:

  Design a responsive landing page for an early-stage technology startup
  preparing for Y Combinator. The primary audience is [target customer],
  with investors as a secondary audience. The product does [one-sentence
  description].


                      🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                               24 / 456
  Optimize for comprehension within 10 seconds, not visual novelty.
  Structure the page as: compact navigation; hero with one clear H1, two-
  sentence explanation, primary CTA and product screenshot/demo; three
  problem/benefit sections; product workflow; quantitative proof or traction
  placeholders; founder/customer credibility; FAQ; final CTA; minimal footer.
  Create desktop and mobile variants. Use a restrained, premium B2B/SaaS
  visual language, strong typography, generous whitespace, minimal
  decorative gradients, and subtle motion opportunities. Build reusable
  components with Auto Layout and consistent spacing. Use semantic
  heading hierarchy and ensure text/background combinations target WCAG
  AA contrast. Do not invent customer logos, traction numbers, testimonials
  or partnerships.

For alternatives rather than accepting the first output:

  Generate four visually distinct hero directions for the same content without
  changing the product positioning:
  A) minimal editorial,
  B) product-first technical,
  C) high-trust enterprise,
  D) bold startup/consumer-tech.
  Keep the same CTA and product screenshot. For each direction, vary
  hierarchy, typography scale, layout and supporting visual treatment rather
  than merely changing colors. Make all directions responsive and editable.

For your component library:

  Create a compact startup website component system using the current
  brand styles. Include navbar, primary/secondary buttons, announcement
  badge, product-demo frame, metric card, feature card, logo strip,
  testimonial card, comparison row, FAQ accordion, CTA banner and footer.
  Define hover/focus/disabled states where relevant. Use consistent radii,
  spacing and typography variables. Design desktop, tablet and mobile
  behavior. Avoid one-off component styling that cannot be reused
  elsewhere.

                      🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                              25 / 456
For a YC-oriented critique pass:

  Review this homepage as a skeptical YC partner or seed investor seeing the
  company for the first time. Do not redesign it yet. Identify where the page
  fails to answer: What does the company do? Who is it for? What is
  differentiated? Is there evidence that the product exists? Is there evidence
  users care? What is the primary CTA?
  Flag vague marketing language, duplicated sections, unsubstantiated
  claims, distracting visual elements and anything that makes
  comprehension slower. Rank the five highest-impact changes, then propose
  a revised content hierarchy.

For accessibility:

  Audit the design for likely accessibility problems before implementation.
  Check text contrast, font sizes, visual hierarchy, focus-state requirements,
  button/link distinction, heading sequence, image alt-text requirements,
  motion/reduced-motion considerations, target sizes, form labels and mobile
  readability. Do not claim WCAG compliance; produce a checklist for manual
  verification.

For Framer after the Figma direction is established:

  Build this as a responsive production marketing page while preserving the
  attached visual hierarchy and brand system. Use reusable components and
  sensible breakpoints. Keep animation subtle: short entrance transitions and
  product-demo interactions only. Prioritize Core Web Vitals, semantic
  structure, accessible keyboard behavior and reduced-motion support. Do
  not add decorative sections or rewrite factual claims without approval.

And for the critical final copy pass:

  Rewrite the homepage for maximum specificity. Preserve all factual
  meaning and do not invent traction. Replace abstract phrases with concrete
  descriptions of what the user does and what result they receive. Keep the
  H1 under 12 words, supporting paragraph under 35 words, feature

                       🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                             26 / 456
  headlines under 8 words and CTA under 4 words. The tone should be
  confident and matter-of-fact rather than promotional.

Risks, caveats, and final judgment
The largest risk in choosing Figma alone is no longer lack of capability.
Figma can genuinely design, prototype, generate code-backed experiences
and publish websites now. The risk is that several of the pieces that most
directly compete with Framer/Webflow—particularly Figma Sites—remain
beta products. 1 For an internal prototype, beta is easy to tolerate. For the
URL that appears in your YC application, founder email signatures, investor
decks, recruiting messages and Google results, I would prefer a production
layer with a longer web-publishing track record.
The largest risk in choosing Framer alone is different: you may start
designing the company’s marketing site in an environment that is excellent
for websites but less appropriate as the long-term design source of truth for
your actual software product. That is why the two-tool workflow is
strategically stronger.
Webflow is the better long-term alternative if your startup expects a
substantial marketing operation, large CMS, sophisticated SEO/content
architecture or more advanced web-development requirements. Its stronger
accessibility audit tooling and explicit no-AI-training policy are meaningful
advantages. 22 But those capabilities impose complexity you probably do not
need before a YC application.
Builder.io and v0 become more compelling once engineering constraints
are known. If your founding team says, “Everything must live in our GitHub
repository and we use React/Next.js,” then the conclusion can flip: v0 or
Figma → Builder/v0 may beat Framer because repository ownership becomes
a first-class criterion. 27 Under your current assumption of no specified stack, I
would not optimize around that constraint prematurely.
Uizard and Google Stitch are excellent ideation tools but weaker choices for
your canonical production workflow. Uizard sacrifices some high-end design-
system and production depth for exceptional approachability, while Stitch
remains officially positioned as a Google Labs experiment. 44



                       🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                 27 / 456
Most importantly, do not let the website project become YC theater.
YC's own materials center the founders, what they are building and
straightforward communication; the founder video is explicitly not supposed
to become a promotional production. 4 The rational goal is therefore not a
month-long agency-grade branding project. It is a credible, distinctive, fast,
product-forward website that you can change every time you learn
something.
My final decision is:
Use Figma AI, but do not rely on Figma AI/Figma Sites alone for the
official company website yet. Design the canonical visual system in
Figma, then launch in Framer.
That gives you the part Figma is genuinely best at—craft, collaborative
design, reusable systems, product continuity and handoff—without
forcing a YC-stage company to bet its public web presence on a still-beta
Figma publishing layer. Figma remains the stronger long-term design
investment; Framer is the better immediate website-delivery mechanism. 3


References
 1. What Figma features are in beta? ↩ ↩2 ↩3
 2. Framer: Pricing ↩ ↩2 ↩3 ↩4 ↩5 ↩6
 3. Dev Mode: Design-to-Development ↩ ↩2 ↩3 ↩4 ↩5
 4. How to Apply to Y Combinator | Y Combinator ↩ ↩2 ↩3 ↩4
 5. Figma2Code: Automating Multimodal Design to Code in the Wild ↩
 6. Config 2026: New Materials, New Tools and a More ... ↩
 7. New features summary | Latest release of Adobe XD | XD ↩
 8. AI Engineering Handoff Tool ↩ ↩2
 9. Figma Make: Create with AI-Powered Design Tools ↩
10. Plans & Pricing | Figma ↩ ↩2 ↩3 ↩4
11. Figma Reviews 2026: Details, Pricing, & Features ↩
12. Figma Sites: Design, Prototype & Publish Your Next Website ↩
13. Figma Sites pages are crawled by Google but not indexed ↩

                        🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                            28 / 456
14. Manage AI settings and content training for your team or ... ↩
15. Framer: AI design agent ↩
16. Guide to web accessibility in Framer ↩ ↩2
17. Accessibility Checker by Atif Sajjad Abbasi ↩
18. Framer AI website builder review 2024 ↩
19. Build and run your company website with AI ↩
20. Security ↩
21. Plans & pricing | Webflow ↩ ↩2
22. Intro to the Audit panel ↩ ↩2 ↩3
23. Webflow AI: Our Approach | Secure, Scalable AI Platform ↩ ↩2
24. Webflow website builder review 2025 ↩
25. Customer stories ↩
26. Pricing Change Calculator ↩
27. Pricing ↩ ↩2 ↩3
28. Turn Figma Designs into Full Stack Apps Using Lovable and Builder.io ↩
29. Generate Code with Custom Instructions ↩
30. Figma Sites: The built-in Figma to website tool ↩ ↩2
31. Security Addendum ↩
32. Builder.io Reviews 2026: Details, Pricing, & Features ↩
33. Deploy AI at the speed of frontend ↩
34. v0 by Vercel: Full stack vibe coding platform. Created by ... ↩
35. v0 by Vercel ↩
36. AI Product Terms ↩
37. Wix Launches Wix Harmony, the AI Website Builder that ... ↩
38. Free AI Website Builder - Create A Website with AI ↩
39. Using the Accessibility Wizard | Help Center ↩
40. Wix Premium Plans: Which Plan to Pick for Your Site ↩ ↩2
41. Robust Security Built Into Every Site | Wix Studio ↩

                       🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                         29 / 456
   42. Wix website builder review 2026 ↩
   43. Uizard Autodesigner 2.0 | AI UI Design Generator ↩
   44. Explore Our Pricing Plans ↩ ↩2 ↩3
   45. Uizard Reviews 2026: Details, Pricing, & Features ↩
   46. Privacy Policy ↩
   47. Google Labs: Google's home for AI experiments ↩ ↩2 ↩3
   48. Product Canvas – /code ↩
   49. Stitch app's DESIGN.md format is now open-source for designers ↩
   50. Google unveils new 'vibe design' tool to help anyone design a high-fidelity
       UI using natural language ↩
   51. Framer: Pricing ↩
   52. Figma plans and features ↩
   53. Use First Draft with Figma AI ↩


8/28/2026, 2:19:28 PM




                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                             30 / 456
                             im not gonna spend any money to host. not at this
                             stage. we will use figna only to design if thats the best
                             designing ai out there
                                                                       8/28/2026, 2:35:51 PM




Got it — hosting cost is a separate constraint. I’ll focus only on AI tools for the UI/UX
design stage, assuming we later deploy the finished site on a free host like Vercel,
Netlify, or Cloudflare Pages.

  Thinking
  ●
      Compared AI design tools for Alice’s website

  ✓ Worked for 10s



  Research stopped

8/28/2026, 2:35:52 PM




                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                  31 / 456
                                                                               @Web search
                                                                             8/28/2026, 2:36:20 PM




  Thinking
  🌐 Searching the web
       framer.com    figma.com    help.figma.com   reddit.com

  ●
      Comparing design tools
      I’m researching current free AI design options, especially Figma, Google Stitch, Framer,
      Readdy, and similar tools. I’m weighing output quality, exportability, design-system
      support, and whether they stay usable without paid hosting.
  ●
      Compared design tools

  🌐 Searching the web
       figma.com     help.figma.com

  ●
      Balancing AI and workflow
      I’m refining the recommendation: Figma is the best single design platform, while Stitch
      may produce more varied first-pass concepts. I’m checking export and plan limitations
      so I can suggest a practical, zero-hosting-cost workflow for Alice.
  ●
      Balanced AI integration with workflow requirements

  🌐 Searching the web
       ycombinator.com     news.ycombinator.com

  ●
      Searched 4 websites

  ✓ Worked for 33s


Yes - with your clarification, I’d keep Figma as the main design environment.
After checking what is available right now in August 2026, I would not replace it with
Framer, Lovable, Readdy, or another AI website builder for ALICE.
But there’s an important distinction:


                             🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                    32 / 456
Figma is the best place to finish the design. It is not necessarily the single
best AI for generating the first visual idea.
For ALICE, I’d use this workflow:
Google Stitch → Figma Design + Figma Agent → Figma Make for interactive
prototype → code it ourselves → free hosting.
That gives us better AI exploration without sacrificing the professional-quality Figma
file we ultimately want.


What I found
             Raw AI                                             Good final
             design       Fine                                  design
             generatio    visual       Design      Website-     workspac     My use for
Tool         n            control      system      specific     e            ALICE

Figma +      ★★★★★        ★★★★★        ★★★★★       ★★★★☆        ★★★★★        Main tool
Agent

Google       ★★★★★        ★★★★☆        ★★★★☆       ★★★★★        ★★★☆☆        Early
Stitch                                                                       exploration

Framer AI    ★★★★★        ★★★★★        ★★★★☆       ★★★★★        ★★★★☆        Skip for us

Magic        ★★★★★        ★★★★☆        ★★★★★       ★★★★☆        ★★★☆☆        Optional
Patterns                                                                     inspiration

Claude       ★★★★☆        ★★★★☆        ★★★★☆       ★★★☆☆        ★★★☆☆        Optional
Design                                                                       exploration

Relume       ★★★★☆        ★★★☆☆        ★★★★☆       ★★★★★        ★★★☆☆        Useful for
                                                                             sitemap only

Readdy/Uiz   ★★★★☆        ★★★☆☆        ★★★☆☆       ★★★★★        ★★☆☆☆        Not worth
ard/etc.                                                                     changing
                                                                             workflow


The reason Figma wins is that its 2026 Agent is dramatically more capable than
the older “Figma AI” people may remember. It can generate and remix complete
designs, work against components/styles/variables, restructure layouts, critique



                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                              33 / 456
accessibility, edit content across multiple frames, and even run several design
explorations simultaneously. (Figma Help Center)
Figma's core editor still gives us all the things that matter once the AI has stopped
being useful: Auto Layout, components, variables, proper spacing systems, vector
control, responsive constraints, exact typography, prototypes, asset export, and
engineer inspection. (Figma)
And that's particularly important for ALICE, because I don't want its public identity to
look like something generated by typing "dark futuristic AI startup landing page" into a
website generator.


The one tool that actually made me reconsider Figma: Google Stitch
Google has significantly upgraded Stitch this year. It's no longer just Google's little
prompt-to-UI experiment.
The March 2026 redesign gave it an AI-native infinite canvas, a design agent that
reasons across the whole project, parallel exploration of different directions, design-
system support through DESIGN.md , visual/text/code context, and high-fidelity UI
generation from natural language. (Google Blog)
Then in May Google added real-time design generation, where you can interrupt
and steer the agent while it's creating the design rather than waiting for the entire
generation to finish. (Google Blog)
For something like:

  Create five fundamentally different visual identities for an AI company whose
  product is a persistent personal cognitive system rather than a chatbot. Avoid
  conventional SaaS card layouts, glowing purple gradients, robot imagery and
  generic AI iconography...

Stitch may actually be better than Figma at diverging wildly at the beginning.
That's why I wouldn't necessarily start with a blank Figma canvas.
I'd let Stitch explore crazy directions. Then we choose the strongest ideas and
reconstruct/refine the winner in Figma.

Why I wouldn't switch to Framer

                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                  34 / 456
If you told me:

  "I don't want to code anything. I want the AI to design the website and publish it."

I'd seriously consider Framer instead of Figma.
Its current AI is purpose-built for websites. It generates complete pages, responsive
states and content, and then lets you visually control grids, breakpoints, typography,
spacing, shaders and animations directly on the canvas. (Framer)
It's probably the strongest AI website designer + website builder in one
package right now.
But we're removing half of that advantage.
We're going to code ALICE ourselves and deploy it somewhere free.
So I don't see much value in locking our design workflow into Framer. Figma gives us a
much stronger neutral design artifact to build from.


Magic Patterns is surprisingly good too
This was another one worth looking at.
Magic Patterns produces actual interactive UI rather than static vectors. It can
generate hover states, forms, focus states and responsive UI from prompts. More
importantly, it explicitly supports exporting the result into Figma. (Magic Patterns)
For product UI I'd rate it extremely highly.
For an ALICE marketing/company website, though, I don't think we need another tool
in the chain unless Figma/Stitch fail to give us something interesting.


So what should we actually use?
I'd do this:
1. Establish ALICE's visual identity ourselves first.
Before asking any AI to create a webpage, we decide:

    what ALICE should feel like
    colors
    typography

                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                             35 / 456
    imagery
    degree of darkness/lightness
    motion philosophy
    what ALICE actually is in one sentence
    what visual clichés are forbidden

This is extremely important.
Otherwise every generator will converge toward:

  dark background + giant gradient headline + glowing orb + glass cards + "AI that
  understands you" + three feature columns.

And we'll look like the 5,000 other AI startups launching this year.


2. Give the same serious creative brief to Google Stitch and Figma Agent.
Not one generation.
I'd create something like:
Direction A - Cognitive architecture
Technical, sparse, almost scientific.
Direction B - Personal intelligence
Human, intimate, elegant.
Direction C - Machine consciousness
Experimental visual storytelling.
Direction D - Memory / continuity
Website unfolds around time, memories and relationships.
Direction E - serious technology company
Very restrained. Think frontier research company rather than AI SaaS.
That lets us compare concepts, not just different colors of the same landing page.


3. Move into Figma and never leave for design.
Once we pick a direction, Figma becomes the source of truth.


                             🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                           36 / 456
We build:

  ALICE Website
  │
  ├── Foundations
  │   ├── Colors
  │   ├── Typography
  │   ├── Grid
  │   ├── Spacing
  │   └── Motion
  │
  ├── Components
  │   ├── Navigation
  │   ├── Buttons
  │   ├── Cards
  │   ├── Diagrams
  │   └── Footer
  │
  ├── Desktop
  │
  ├── Tablet
  │
  ├── Mobile
  │
  └── Prototype


The AI helps us generate and critique.
We make the final design decisions.


4. Use Figma Make only after the static design is strong.
This distinction matters.
I would not tell Figma Make:

  "Make the ALICE website."

Instead:
Figma Design + Agent → finished visual design → Figma Make.


                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter     37 / 456
Figma Make can attach existing Figma designs and design-system context, then turn
them into code-backed interactive prototypes. Figma explicitly designed it around this
workflow. (Figma)
So we can test:

    transitions
    nav behavior
    scroll animations
    product demonstrations
    interactive memory visualizations
    responsive behavior

before writing our production site.


And this doesn't require paying Figma right now either
Figma's Starter plan currently includes 500 AI credits/month with a 150-credit
daily limit. (Figma)
Even better, the new Figma Design Agent is currently in open beta and doesn't
consume AI credits during the beta. (Figma Help Center)
So right now is actually a very good time to do this.
One weird caveat: Figma says the Agent beta is currently not available on Education
plans. So if your Vanderbilt-associated account is enrolled in Figma Education and
doesn't show Agent, we should use a normal free Starter workspace/account for this
particular project rather than assuming the feature is missing. (Figma Help Center)

One thing I'd change because we're targeting YC
I wouldn't make this a huge corporate website.
YC repeatedly emphasizes clarity over sounding impressive. Michael Seibel's
pitching guidance essentially says visitors should understand what the company does
immediately rather than being subjected to jargon. (Y Combinator)
And YC's own startup-site design reviews recommend one obvious CTA, getting users
to the "aha" moment quickly, and being careful with gratuitous animation. (Y

                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                            38 / 456
Combinator)
So ALICE's first website could probably be only:
Hero → Live/product demonstration → What ALICE is → Why current AI
memory fails → How ALICE is different → Architecture/technology → Our story
→ CTA.
We don't need fake testimonials, fake enterprise logos, six pricing tiers, twenty feature
cards, or generic "Trusted by innovators" bullshit.
The technology itself is interesting enough.


My recommendation
Don't abandon Figma.
For what we're doing, I'd rate the choices:
Best single tool: Figma Design + Figma Agent
Best possible AI-assisted design workflow:
Google Stitch → Figma Design/Agent → Figma Make
Best if we wanted AI to both design and host/build: Framer - but that's
specifically not our plan.
Best optional third-party design generator: Magic Patterns.
And then we take the final Figma design, build the real ALICE site ourselves, and
deploy it on free infrastructure.
So yes: Figma should be our official design source of truth. I just wouldn't
handicap ourselves by insisting that Figma has to generate every initial idea too.
The next thing I'd do is research the actual visual identity and website structure
ALICE should have - including current YC AI company websites, frontier AI labs,
unusual interactive sites, typography/styles and design references - and turn that into
one extremely detailed master prompt we can give Figma/Stitch. That part will matter
more than which AI generator we choose.


  Sources




                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                               39 / 456
 How do I access the AI agent beta in Figma Design? – Figma Learn - help.figma.com
 Help Center

 Plans & Pricing | Figma figma.com

 Design UI using AI with Stitch from Google Labs blog.google

 Framer: AI canvas agent framer.com

 The AI Design Generator Built for Designers | Magic Patterns magicpatterns.com

 How to Pitch Your Company | Y Combinator ycombinator.com

8/28/2026, 2:36:20 PM




                         🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                            40 / 456
 The next thing I'd do is research **the actual visual identity and website structure
 ALICE should have** — including current YC AI company websites, frontier AI labs,
 unusual interactive sites, typography/styles and design references — and turn that
 into one extremely detailed master prompt we can give Figma/Stitch. That part will
 matter more than which AI generator we choose. ![]
 (https://www.google.com/s2/favicons?domain=https://blog.google&sz=32) ![]
 (https://www.google.com/s2/favicons?domain=https://www.figma.com&sz=32) ![]
 (https://www.google.com/s2/favicons?domain=https://help.figma.com&sz=32)
 Sources

                            @Web search good idea. i like it. now, go through your
                            memory and alice, friday github. gather all the context
                            and generate idea and show me
                                                                      8/28/2026, 2:40:46 PM




I’m pulling this from two directions: the actual ALICE/Friday project identity and
architecture we’ve built so far, and current high-end AI/startup website patterns.
Then I’ll turn that into a concrete website concept — not just a moodboard.
The repo confirms the core story is much stronger than “AI assistant.” ALICE is
explicitly framed as a long-term personal cognitive system, with Friday as the
generalized product downstream. The website should therefore sell continuity +
judgment + learning over a life, not “chat with your files” or “AI that remembers
you.”
I found the repo’s YC/company plan too, and it already contains a crucial positioning
decision: ALICE is the founder’s flagship proof; Friday is the scalable product.
The intended moat is host-owned learning, provenance-aware memory, model
independence, an Identity Capsule, and proof-oriented privacy — not “we have a
chatbot with memory.”

  Thinking
  🌐 Personalizing
  ●
      Personalized A.L.I.C.E. purpose, relationships, memory, and startup


                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                41 / 456
      positioning
  ●
      Reviewing requirements and references
      I’m gathering the project context, current product stage, and relevant AI-company
      website patterns before shaping a direction. I’ll compare visual systems, interaction
      ideas, and positioning so the homepage fits ALICE rather than copying trends.
  ●
      Reviewed requirements and references
  ●
      Shaping ALICE’s direction
      I’m consolidating the product context with current AI-company web patterns, then
      translating those findings into a distinct ALICE homepage concept. I’m prioritizing trust,
      local intelligence, quiet utility, and a visual system that feels mature rather than
      generic.
  ●
      Shaped ALICE’s direction

  ✓ Worked for 4m 1s


I went through the current A.L.I.C.E. repo, Friday repo, the YC/company plan,
Friday product vision, privacy architecture, technical architecture, and the
direction we've established in our previous work. I also compared it against current
sites from Thinking Machines, World Labs, Cursor, Anthropic, and YC's own design
advice.
I think the website should revolve around one idea:

AI that doesn't start over.
Not “your second brain.”
Not “AI that knows you.”
Not “an autonomous personal assistant.”
Those are already becoming generic.
A.L.I.C.E.'s actual technical thesis is much more interesting:

  Today's AI understands your prompt. We're building AI that understands
  the life behind it.

The repo itself says the central problem is continuity: today's assistants can solve
individual tasks while losing the larger direction connecting them. A.L.I.C.E. instead


                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                      42 / 456
combines persistent memory, an Experience Ledger, Mission Graph, judgment, tools,
learning and model-independent identity into one continuing system.
And Friday's consumer thesis makes the product much more defensible than a generic
memory wrapper: every installation is intended to become its own host-owned
personal intelligence with inspectable memories/beliefs, learned skills, eventual host-
specific model components, an encrypted Identity Capsule, and replaceable
foundation models.


The website concept I'd build
A.L.I.C.E. - Continuity
Visually, imagine a combination of:
Thinking Machines' seriousness

    World Labs' custom visual storytelling
    Cursor's product demonstration
    something that is unmistakably ours.




                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                             43 / 456
Those sites are useful references because they aren't trying to scream AI STARTUP
with glowing violet spheres.
Thinking Machines uses an almost research-publication aesthetic and leads with a
serious thesis. (Thinking Machines Lab) World Labs pairs a very simple proposition
with bespoke visual imagery rather than generic UI cards. (World Labs) Cursor now
puts the actual product experience directly into the page instead of explaining
everything through marketing language. (Cursor)
For A.L.I.C.E., however, the signature visual would be different.

A living memory thread.
Not a brain.
Not neural-network dots.
Not an orb.


                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                             44 / 456
Not a woman/robot representing Alice.
A continuous line representing one person's life over time.
As you scroll, things attach to that line:

  2019                2022                    2025                 TODAY
   │                   │                        │                    │
   ●───────────────────●──────────────●────────●──────────●──────────●
   │                   │              │         │         │
  School             Project       Decision Career      Current
                                        │
                                 "Why did I
                                  choose this?"
                                        │
                                  evidence
                                        │
                                    outcome
                                        │
                                    lesson


And then the page gradually reveals that these aren't merely memories.
They become connected missions, evidence, choices, consequences and future
decisions.
That is visually A.L.I.C.E.'s architecture.


Hero
Very sparse.
Almost the whole first screen is empty.
Top left:
A.L.I.C.E.
Navigation:
Vision      Technology   Research    Build    Early Access

Then enormous typography:

  AI that

                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                     45 / 456
  doesn't start over.
Underneath:
A.L.I.C.E. is building a personal cognitive system that remembers decisions,
learns from outcomes, understands your larger goals, and stays continuous
as the models underneath it change.
Two CTAs only:
See how it works →
View the research

YC specifically recommends one dominant action and getting visitors to the product's
“aha” moment quickly. Their AI-site reviews also emphasize showing a concrete feat
of strength rather than relying on clever copy. (Y Combinator)
So immediately underneath the headline, something moves.
Not decorative animation.
An actual demonstration.


The hero demonstration
This is where I think the site becomes special.
The visitor sees five disconnected AI conversations.

  CHAT 01                    CHAT 02

  Help me choose             Should I take this
  between these majors.      research position?



  CHAT 03                    CHAT 04

  Review my resume.          Which internship
                             should I accept?



                 CHAT 05




                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                         46 / 456
         Should I go to grad school?


Initially, each exists independently.
Headline:


Today's AI sees five conversations.
Then the cards fade outward.
A line begins connecting the information:

                                 CAREER
                               /       \
                        research      internship
                           │              │
                           └────┬───────┘
                                  │
                         graduate school
                                  │
                          financial plan
                                  │
                             long-term goal


Copy changes to:

A.L.I.C.E. sees one life.
That could be our signature website moment.
It directly communicates the product in maybe five seconds.
No jargon required.


Section 2 - The problem
Huge sentence:

Intelligence isn't enough without continuity.
Then two columns.



                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter      47 / 456
Current AI

  Prompt
  ↓
  Answer
  ↓
  Prompt
  ↓
  Answer
  ↓
  Prompt
  ↓
  Answer



A.L.I.C.E.

  Goal
   ↓
  Decision
   ↓
  Action
   ↓
  Outcome
   ↓
  Experience
   ↓
  Learning
   ↓
  Better next decision
   ↺


This is essentially already the A.L.I.C.E. architecture. The repository describes the
Experience Ledger as connecting request → context → evidence → model → decision →
action → result → correction → lesson.
That is gold for visual storytelling.


Section 3 - Memory that knows what it knows
This should not be another three-card feature grid.

                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                         48 / 456
Instead show a real-looking A.L.I.C.E. memory object.
Something like:

  ┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
  │ MEMORY                                           ACTIVE │
  │                                                           │
  │ Rayan prefers research roles that strengthen his        │
  │ long-term quantitative / AI trajectory.                   │
  │                                                           │
  │ SOURCE         Direct statement                           │
  │ RECORDED       Aug 14, 2026                                 │
  │ CONFIDENCE     0.96                                         │
  │                                                           │
  │ Influenced                                                  │
  │ ├─ Internship recommendation                                │
  │ ├─ Resume prioritization                                    │
  │ └─ Research planning                                        │
  │                                                           │
  │                     Inspect evidence →                      │
  └─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘


Then underneath:

  Memory isn't chat history. It's evidence.

A.L.I.C.E. explicitly distinguishes owner statements, observations, external claims,
inference, predictions, corrections and uncertain reconstructions rather than silently
treating all remembered information as equally true.
That is a real differentiator.


Section 4 - Missions
Full screen.


Your life doesn't happen in chat tabs.
Then an interactive Mission Graph.




                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                              49 / 456
                           YOU
                            │
               ┌────────────┴─────────────┐
               │                           │
             CAREER                     RESEARCH
               │                           │
        ┌──────┼──────┐             ┌─────┴─────┐
        │      │      │             │            │
    Resume Interview Internship Project A      Project B
        │               │             │
        └──────────────┼─────────────┘
                       │
                   Grad School
                       │
                    Finances


Hovering over a connection explains why ALICE thinks they're related.
That's considerably more interesting than:

  🧠 Memory
  ⚡ Automation
  🔍 Search
which is essentially the current Friday README presentation.
The README is fine for developers.
The website needs to make the architecture felt.


Section 5 - Judgment
This one matters enormously.
Big copy:

A personal AI shouldn't agree with you all the time.
Then:




                         🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                  50 / 456
  It should know what you're trying to achieve well enough to tell you when you're
  moving in the wrong direction.

Demo:

  YOU

  "I'm thinking about starting another project.
  Help me plan it."



  ALICE

  I can.

  But I don't think you should start it right now.

  You currently have:
  ────────────────────────────────────────
  Research deadline                    6d
  Interview                            9d
  Existing project             behind plan
  New project impact                 HIGH
  ────────────────────────────────────────

  The new project supports Goal 4.
  It conflicts with Goals 1 and 2.

  Recommendation:
  Finish the research deadline first.

  Why I think this →


That is a serious product demo.
And it's explicitly part of the architecture: A.L.I.C.E. is designed to form evidence-
based judgment, identify conflicts, question assumptions, recommend alternatives
and explain the evidence behind disagreement while retaining owner authority.


Section 6 - The model is not the identity
                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                 51 / 456
This could become one of the strongest parts of the website.
Heading:

Models come and go. You don't.
Visual:

               ┌─ Local model
               │
               ├─ GPT
               │
  ALICE ───────┼─ Claude
               │
               ├─ Gemini
               │
               └─ future models

                          ↓

              MEMORY · IDENTITY
              SKILLS · HISTORY
              GOALS · JUDGMENT
                   remain


Then an interactive selector:
Model A → Model B

The model name changes.
The remembered history doesn't.
The repo makes this a foundational architectural principle: the base reasoning engine
is replaceable while continuity is preserved in the surrounding cognitive system.
That's an excellent investor-level technical point too.


Section 7 - Privacy
I have a line I really like for this.

Your AI can know more about you because we
know less.
                              🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                        52 / 456
That should almost be a full-screen section by itself.
Underneath:
Your personal intelligence belongs on your side of the trust boundary.
Then an architecture visual:

                  YOUR COMPUTER

        ┌──────────────────────────┐
        │ Files                    │
        │ Memories                 │
        │ Embeddings               │
        │ Beliefs                  │
        │ Skills                   │
        │ Personal model state     │
        │ Identity                 │
        │ Encryption keys          │
        └────────────┬─────────────┘
                     │
            YOU decide what leaves
                     │
              ───────┼───────
                     ▼

                  INTERNET


And an egress indicator:
Network activity
0 B personal data sent to A.L.I.C.E.

The actual Friday architecture is even stronger than the usual “local-first” marketing
line: host-held keys, a content-free vendor plane, visible egress, local encryption
domains, offline capability, and no default vendor access to memories, embeddings,
conversations or personalized model state.
Don't bury that in a privacy page.
Make it part of the brand.


Section 8 - Learning

                             🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                           53 / 456
Headline:

It should be different after knowing you for a year.
Then a timeline.

 DAY 1

 general model
         │
         ▼

 MONTH 1

 memories
 preferences
 missions
          │
          ▼

 YEAR 1

 experience
 skills
 judgment
 personal models
          │
          ▼

 YEAR 5

 a personal intelligence
 that could not belong
 to anyone else


This maps directly onto the consumer vision: each installation eventually diverges
through memory, beliefs, procedural skills, learned routing/ranking, adapters and
potentially host-specific model parameters.
Very powerful.



                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                             54 / 456
Section 9 - ALICE → the product
This is where the startup story becomes unusually good.
I would use this sentence:

Built first around one life. Designed eventually for
yours.
Then explain:
A.L.I.C.E. is our flagship research implementation.
It is where the architecture is developed, tested and evaluated deeply against one
continuous host before transferable capabilities enter the consumer system.
Then:

         A.L.I.C.E.
     frontier research
            │
            ▼
   capability + evaluation
            │
            ▼
   Personal Cognitive Kernel
            │
            ▼
      YOUR INSTANCE
            │
       ┌────┴────┐
       │         │
     yours     theirs
       │         │
   different   different


The repository explicitly defines that upstream/downstream model.
And the YC/company plan literally says:
A.L.I.C.E. is the founder's flagship implementation and technical proof.
Friday is the scalable product.
There is one branding correction I would make now:


                             🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                           55 / 456
Do not put “Friday” all over the public site.
Your own ratified product vision says Friday is the internal codename, while the
eventual public product brand is still to be selected and each user's assistant gets its
own locally chosen identity.
The IP-risk document goes even further: Friday has not been cleared as the
commercial name and has meaningful collision/confusion risk.
So for now:
Company / research: A.L.I.C.E.
Consumer system: “our personal intelligence platform”
Internal codename: Friday, kept internal
until we do actual naming work.


Overall visual language
I do not want:

    purple/blue gradient blobs
    glowing AI orb
    glassmorphism everywhere
    generic 3D chrome object
    endless rounded Bento cards
    fake customer logos
    fake testimonials
    stock photography
    particle brain
    humanoid robot
    giant neon “future is here”
    animated text for the sake of animation


Instead:



                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                               56 / 456
Background: warm bone / almost-white
#F1EFE9

Primary ink: nearly black
#101214

Secondary text: slate
#656A6E

Memory / continuity accent: subdued blue
#718FA8

Evidence / provenance: warm amber
#C79051

Correction / conflict: muted red
#A05A56

Not saturated.
Not cyberpunk.
Serious.


Typography
I would explore:

Headline
Instrument Serif
Large.
Beautiful.
Almost editorial/research-journal feeling.


Body/UI
Geist


Technical metadata
IBM Plex Mono
That gives us three voices:

                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter   57 / 456
human → structured → technical
which is effectively ALICE's entire design thesis.
Anthropic and Thinking Machines both demonstrate that advanced AI companies can
look more credible when they borrow from research publishing and editorial design
rather than default SaaS aesthetics. (Anthropic)


What the homepage would literally look like
  ┌───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
  │ A.L.I.C.E.        Vision    Technology    Research        Early Access │
  │                                                                         │
  │                                                                         │
  │                                                                         │
  │        AI that                                                          │
  │        doesn't start over.                                              │
  │                                                                         │
  │        A personal cognitive system that remembers                       │
  │        decisions, learns from outcomes and understands                  │
  │        the life behind the prompt.                                      │
  │                                                                         │
  │        [ See how it works → ]       View research                       │
  │                                                                         │
  │                                                                         │
  │                2019 ────●────●──────●──●──────── TODAY                │
  │                           ╲         ╱         ╲                           │
  │                             career            research                    │
  │                                 ╲               ╱                       │
  │                                   ●───────────●                           │
  │                                     one life                            │
  │                                                                         │
  └───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
                                    ↓
  ┌───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
  │                                                                         │
  │            TODAY'S AI SEES FIVE CONVERSATIONS.                          │
  │                                                                         │
  │        [chat]        [chat]          [chat]        [chat]               │
  │                                                                         │
  │                                ↓                                        │


                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                          58 / 456
  │                                                                   │
  │                 A.L.I.C.E. SEES ONE LIFE.                         │
  │                                                                   │
  │                         ╭──career──╮                                │
  │                    research        internship                     │
  │                         ╰────┬─────╯                                │
  │                             YOU                                   │
  │                              │                                    │
  │                      long-term goal                               │
  │                                                                   │
  └───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
                                   ↓
                              MEMORY
                                   ↓
                              MISSIONS
                                   ↓
                              JUDGMENT
                                   ↓
                              LEARNING
                                   ↓
                                PRIVACY
                                   ↓
                         MODEL INDEPENDENCE
                                   ↓
                     BUILT FIRST AROUND ONE LIFE
                                   ↓
                           JOIN EARLY ACCESS


That's the direction I would actually pursue.


The most important design decision
The website should never be primarily about a list of capabilities.
A.L.I.C.E. has enough capabilities that doing so would destroy the pitch.
The website needs to communicate a new category:

  Chatbots answer questions.
  Agents complete tasks.
  Personal cognitive systems develop continuity.


                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                     59 / 456
That's what I think we should try to own.
And it's consistent with where the industry is going. Thinking Machines now explicitly
talks about AI being shaped continuously by the people it serves rather than being
frozen after training. (Thinking Machines Lab) But A.L.I.C.E.'s concept goes
substantially further in architecture by connecting persistent personal memory,
provenance, missions, outcomes, local learning and host ownership.


One caution before we lock the logo
I also searched ALICE as a commercial AI name because we're about to create the
official site.
It's crowded.
For example, 11x AI filed a U.S. ALICE application in 2025 covering AI software, digital
workers, chatbots and virtual assistants. (Justia Trademarks) There are other ALICE-
related software/AI applications as well. (Justia Trademarks)
That doesn't tell us whether we can or cannot use A.L.I.C.E. Legal clearance
requires more than a web search. But it means I would absolutely design the identity
so the wordmark can be replaced without destroying the visual system, just as your
Friday architecture already requires branding to be decoupled from the underlying
product architecture.
So I would keep building visually under A.L.I.C.E. for now, but not spend money or
lock domains/trademarks until we do the naming clearance properly.

My pick
If I had to open Stitch/Figma right now, I would generate three versions of this
same “Continuity” concept, rather than three unrelated websites:
01 - Editorial Continuity
Warm light background. Human. Intelligent. Timeless. My favorite.
02 - Dark Cognitive System
Black background. Fine graph lines. More technical/research-lab.
03 - Living Archive
More emotional and unusual. Time, memory, documents and life events become the
visual language.


                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                              60 / 456
Then we'd take the best pieces and make one design in Figma.
And because we're currently deep in the memory/continuity side of A.L.I.C.E.'s
development rather than sitting at a generic idea-stage, the Continuity story also
lines up extremely well with what we can eventually demonstrate instead of inventing
marketing claims the product can't support.


  Sources

  https://thinkingmachines.ai/ thinkingmachines.ai

  https://www.worldlabs.ai/ worldlabs.ai

  https://cursor.com/ cursor.com

  https://www.ycombinator.com/blog/design-review-tips-for-           ycombinator.com
  increasing-conversions

  https://www.anthropic.com/company anthropic.com

  https://trademarks.justia.com/994/35/alice-99435707.html trademarks.justia.com

8/28/2026, 2:40:54 PM




                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                           61 / 456
                                @Web search do more research on the design from the
                                current in last 3 years YC ai statups that aligns with us.
                                                                             8/28/2026, 2:53:47 PM




I’m narrowing this to YC AI companies from roughly 2023–2026 that overlap
with ALICE on memory, personal context, agents, computer use, autonomy,
or AI infrastructure. I’ll study their actual current websites—not just logos or YC
descriptions—and extract the design patterns that would help us look credible without
copying the YC/SaaS template.

  Thinking
  ●
      Researching YC startups
      I’m identifying recent YC AI companies whose products, positioning, and visual
      language may align with Alice. I’ll compare their websites and design patterns,
      focusing on personal AI, memory, agents, and thoughtful interfaces.
  ●
      Researched YC startups

  🌐 Searching the web
       ycombinator.com

  ●
      Comparing design signals
      I’m narrowing the research to recent YC AI startups with strong alignment to Alice:
      personal intelligence, memory, ambient assistance, agentic workflows, and calm or
      distinctive product design.
  ●
      Compared design signals

  🌐 Searching the web
       askjo.ai   caddy.app    cua.ai   kernel.sh   cyberdesk.io   watolabs.com

  ●
      Reviewing visual patterns
      I’m expanding the comparison beyond product categories to study typography, color,
      motion, imagery, interaction models, and narrative structure across current YC AI
      websites.
  ●
      Synthesizing design direction


                              🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                   62 / 456
      I’m comparing recent YC AI sites through Alice’s lens: personal intelligence, memory,
      ambient assistance, agents, trust, and calm interfaces. The strongest references
      combine human language, concrete product evidence, and distinctive visual systems
      rather than generic AI imagery.
  ●
      Reviewed visual patterns and synthesized design direction
  ●
      Searched 1 website

  ✓ Worked for 1m 52s


I dug much deeper into YC AI startups from 2023-2026 that are actually
adjacent to ALICE, rather than just famous AI companies. That changed my view of
the design somewhat.
The most important discovery is that we already have very direct YC neighbors.
Oki, Pickle, Rowboat, Mem0, jo, Pally, Caddy, Nozomio/Folk, CORE, Epicenter and
Touchy are all attacking pieces of the same future: long-term context, personal
memory, proactive agents, local/private AI, persistent identity or computer action. (Y
Combinator)
That means ALICE's website cannot merely look beautiful. It has to make our specific
difference visually obvious within ~10 seconds.




                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                     63 / 456
The closest YC websites
                           Why it matters      Current design        What I would
Company     YC batch       to us               strategy              take

Oki         W25            Local private AI    Very clean            Trust +
                           + personal life     product-object        evidence UI
                           context + action    design. Real UI
                                               evidence.
                                               Hardware-quality
                                               polish.

Pickle      W25            Personal memory     Warm,                 Human warmth
                           OS that             emotional,
                           continuously        organic, lifestyle-
                           learns you          oriented

Rowboat     S24            Local AI coworker   Product-first.        Interactive
                           + knowledge         Clickable demo.       proof
                           graph + memory      Graph and real
                                               interfaces.

Mem0        S24            Persistent AI       Dark technical        Research
                           memory              design. Code,         credibility
                                               benchmarks,
                                               proof.

Pally       S25            Personal            Plain English +       Storytelling
                           assistant across    narrative
                           life                metaphor +
                                               actual messages



                   🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                    64 / 456
                                     Why it matters       Current design     What I would
Company             YC batch         to us                strategy           take

Nozomio / Folk      S25              Context +            Extremely          Personality/minim
                                     proactive            stripped down      alism
                                     personal AI          and culturally
                                                          distinctive

Caddy               F25              AI learns how        Friendly           Personalization
                                     you work and         consumer UI with   demo
                                     what you care        actual personal
                                     about                examples

jo                  P26              Persistent           Very simple,       Concrete use
                                     personal AI          scenario-driven,   cases
                                     across work/life     product
                                                          screenshot
                                                          heavy

Touchy              S26              Personal             Product-centric.   Simplicity
                                     multimodal           Almost anti-
                                     proactive            dashboard.
                                     assistant

Epicenter           S25              Local-first shared   Developer/open-    Ownership story
                                     memory, model        source aesthetic
                                     choice


And the two companies I think we should study most carefully are Oki and Pickle.
Because they are dangerously close to parts of what we are trying to communicate.


1. Oki is probably our closest current YC design
competitor
YC now describes Oki as:

     “The digital home for your personal memories.”

Its current product says it uses private local AI that grows with the user. (Y
Combinator)


                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                       65 / 456
Their current homepage is particularly interesting. It doesn't lead with twenty AI
buzzwords. It establishes:
“A private place for your digital life. On device intelligence that actually gets
it.”
Then immediately goes into tangible things:

    photos/files/context stored locally
    natural-language retrieval
    a physical memory chip
    memory
    intelligence
    actions
    an action log
    source inspection

Their product even presents an action log as a “supervisory spine” where users
can inspect what changed and why. (Oki Home)
Visually, the actual software is quiet and almost operating-system-like:




                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                             66 / 456
This is important.


What Oki gets right
They don't visualize privacy with a giant shield icon.
They show the artifact.
They don't just write:

  Your AI remembers.

They display:

  Library Indexing · 12,431

They don't just say:

  AI understands context.

They show a query for a lease signed in 2023 and visibly tie the result back to a PDF
and iMessage source. (Oki Home)
That's exactly the lesson I want to steal.
For ALICE, don't say:

  provenance-aware memory

show a memory and its provenance.
Don't say:


                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                            67 / 456
  outcome-aware learning

show the decision → outcome → lesson.
Don't say:

  owner sovereignty

show ALICE asking for authorization.


2. Pickle means we cannot make “living memory”
our visual identity
Pickle is W25 and YC currently describes it as a personal, memory-based
operating system that continuously learns real-world context, preferences and
intent so AI becomes proactive. (Y Combinator)
That is very close language.
And their public visual direction has moved toward:

  Turning life's moments into understanding.

with an earthy, organic, emotionally warm visual identity.
Their positioning is essentially:

  things you said
  things you did
  things you learned
           ↓
  living memory
           ↓
  patterns
           ↓
  intent
           ↓
  personal intelligence


So there is something from my previous idea I now wouldn't do.



                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                       68 / 456
I would not make ALICE's whole website about abstract “life memories floating
through time.”
It's beautiful.
But Pickle is already occupying that territory.
This is useful competitive information.


3. Rowboat is the strongest example of how we
should demonstrate ALICE
Rowboat S24 is unusually relevant because it builds a long-lived local knowledge
graph from emails, meetings, Slack and other work context. YC describes it explicitly
as an “AI coworker with memory.” (Y Combinator)
But their current website does something more important:

The product is the visual.
The page lets you interact with a snapshot of Rowboat itself.
Then it explains individual surfaces:
Email → Brain → Meetings → Background agents → Code → Apps.
Their “Brain” is visibly a linked knowledge graph. The site demonstrates notes
changing when new emails arrive. It explains that a meeting updates the graph. And it
gives realistic prompts such as preparing for an investor meeting from previous
decisions and outstanding questions. (Rowboat Labs)
That is much stronger than a fancy abstract animation.
For ALICE, I would adopt this philosophy almost exactly:


The homepage should contain a fake-but-functional ALICE
environment.
Not a screenshot.
An interactive demonstration built specifically for the website.
The user should be able to click around.


4. Pally taught me something about storytelling

                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                            69 / 456
Pally is S25. Its current site doesn't begin with architecture.
It begins:

One text away from done.
Then the next section says:

You have loose threads everywhere.
And literally shows:

  WhatsApp
  Let's do Kolae at 8

  Gmail
  BA 117 check-in is open

  Slack
  Launch date moved

  Drive
  Pricing deck final

  Calendar
  Flight to NYC tomorrow


Then:

It all comes together in Pally.
That is excellent communication design. (Pally)
The underlying idea isn't sophisticated.
The metaphor is.
“Loose threads” gives the whole webpage one visual language.
ALICE needs the same thing.
Not cards for:
Memory / Research / Planning / Tools / Judgment / Learning / Computer use .

We need one metaphor that explains why those exist together.


                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                     70 / 456
I think ours should still be continuity, but manifested as a continuous causal thread
rather than “memories.”


5. Caddy and jo show how to make personalization
believable
Caddy F25 says:

  No two Caddys are alike.

But instead of stopping there, its website gives fictional user instances.
One person's Caddy knows:

  Favorite word: “wild”
  Daily deep work at 9-11am
  Work bestie: Jordan
  Vegetarian

Another knows about losing weight, inbox management and pursuing a dream job.
Another knows message-style preferences, family routines and travel plans. (Caddy)
That's smart.
Personalization becomes visible differences between people.
Meanwhile jo currently structures its site around recognizable scenarios:

  “What actually needs me today?”

  “214 unread in Maya's soccer group. Somewhere in there is a plan.”

  “Did I ever reply to Dana?”

  “The 9:30 with Priya - what did we leave open last time?”

and shows source data beside the resulting briefing. (jo)
That's very useful for us.



                             🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                          71 / 456
We should show two different ALICE-derived host instances receiving the same
question and giving different recommendations because their history is
different.
That would communicate personalization far better than saying “personalized AI.”


6. Folk is an interesting counterexample to the
entire AI-design trend
Nozomio S25 explicitly says it is a product lab “solving context in AI.” YC describes
its thesis as AI products becoming less stateless, forgetful and generic. (Y Combinator)
Its current consumer product Folk is almost aggressively simple.
The website starts:

the friend that keeps you locked in
and sections are basically:
01 · lock in
02 · study buddy
03 · texts first
It uses lowercase, casual writing, huge amounts of whitespace and almost no
corporate jargon. (Folk)
That's a useful warning.
An early AI company doesn't necessarily become more credible by looking like NASA
Mission Control.
Sometimes confidence means removing things.


7. Mem0 shows what our technical section should
look like
Mem0 S24 is specifically the “memory layer for AI agents.” (Y Combinator)
Its current site leads with a very simple technical proposition:

AI memory that persists across sessions and
agents

                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                             72 / 456
But the important part follows immediately.
There is working integration code.
Then real developer numbers.
Then an explanation:
Add → Learn → Retrieve
Then benchmarks against LoCoMo, LongMemEval and BEAM.
Then governance/security.
In other words:

  claim
   ↓
  try it
   ↓
  implementation
   ↓
  metrics
   ↓
  research
   ↓
  trust


(Mem0)
We should copy that information architecture for ALICE's technical story.
Not its black/purple aesthetic.


The pattern across the best YC sites
After comparing all of these, I think there is a very clear 2024-2026 shift.
The stronger sites increasingly behave less like marketing brochures and more like
compressed product demos.
The winning sequence is:

  one clear idea → one tangible demonstration → one or two differentiators
  → evidence → trust → CTA


                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                        73 / 456
Not:

  hero → 6 feature cards → logos → testimonial → 6 more feature cards → pricing.

That matters for us.


And this changes my ALICE recommendation
My earlier “AI that doesn't start over” concept is still good.
But after this research I think we can make the website even more differentiated.
Because here's the competitive problem:
Mem0: remembers.
Pickle: remembers your life.
Oki: privately remembers your life locally.
Rowboat: remembers + knowledge graph + acts.
jo: remembers + proactively works.
Pally: remembers + acts across your life.
Folk: remembers + proactively acts.
CORE: understands you + proactively acts. (Y Combinator)
If our headline is merely:

  AI that remembers you.

we disappear into this crowd.
Even:

  AI that doesn't start over.

is increasingly becoming the category problem, not uniquely our solution.
A.L.I.C.E. has something more interesting.

ALICE remembers what happened next.
That is where I think our design can become genuinely different.
Because our architecture isn't supposed to end here:

                             🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                          74 / 456
  You said something
         ↓
  Memory


It goes:

  GOAL
    ↓
  DECISION
    ↓
  ACTION
    ↓
  OUTCOME
    ↓
  WHAT ACTUALLY HAPPENED
    ↓
  LESSON
    ↓
  NEXT DECISION
          ↺


That's much less common.


The revised homepage I would design
The page opens almost completely white/cream.
Small:
A.L.I.C.E.
Personal Cognitive Systems

Then:

**AI should remember
what happened next.**
Below:
We're building personal intelligence that connects what you wanted, what
you decided, what happened afterward, and what it should learn for next

                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                   75 / 456
time.
Then:
[ Watch ALICE think → ]
Read the research

No giant abstract art.
No orb.
No neural net.
Instead, beneath the copy is one real interaction.


Hero interaction
The website initially displays:

  MARCH 2025

  You:
  Should I accept the research position?

  ALICE:
  Yes.

  It supports your long-term research goal
  and gives you experience in X.


A little line leaves the card.
Scroll.

  APRIL

  DECISION
  Accepted position


Line continues.

  JUNE

  OUTCOME


                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter   76 / 456
  Project produced measurable research result.

  But:
  time commitment was 37% above estimate.


Line continues.

  AUGUST

  You:
  Should I take another research project?


Then ALICE responds:

   I think you should decline this one.

And underneath:
Why?
Click it.
The earlier experience unfolds.
That's our homepage.


This differentiates us from Pickle/Oki immediately
Pickle visually says:

   your life becomes memory.

Oki says:

   your digital life becomes privately accessible intelligence.

Rowboat says:

   your work becomes a knowledge graph.

ALICE would say:

                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter          77 / 456
  your experiences become judgment.

That's a much more defensible visual category.
And it fits the system we actually intend to build.


The new signature graphic
I still want a continuous line.
But I would change what it means.
It is not a timeline of memories.
It is a causal continuity line.

           GOAL
            ●
            │
            │
         DECISION
            ●──────────── evidence
            │
            │
          ACTION
            ●
            │
            │
         OUTCOME
            ●────── correction
            │
            │
          LESSON
            ●
            │
            ╰─────────────────────────╮
                                      │
                                NEW DECISION
                                      ●


As you move through the page, the same line evolves.
At first it's simple.

                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter   78 / 456
Then it branches into:
people
projects
goals
constraints
decisions
evidence
outcomes
Eventually it becomes the Mission Graph.
That gives the entire website one design grammar.


We should combine four YC design philosophies
This is now my proposed formula:

Oki's trust
Show sources, action history and evidence instead of merely promising
privacy/control. Oki's current site uses inspectable source-linked results and an action
log as product features. (Oki Home)


Rowboat's proof
Put a clickable ALICE demo near the top instead of relying on promotional artwork.
Rowboat currently makes its interactive product snapshot a major part of its
homepage. (Rowboat Labs)


Pally's storytelling
Give the entire site one understandable metaphor rather than explaining twelve
architecture layers separately. Pally does this extremely well with its “loose threads”
narrative. (Pally)


Mem0's technical seriousness
When we make technical claims, show architecture, research and eventually
evaluations rather than futuristic adjectives. Mem0 now puts code, algorithm


                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                               79 / 456
explanation, benchmarks and governance directly into its product narrative. (Mem0)
That combination is stronger for us than imitating Anthropic.


Visual style: I would modify my previous choice too
Previously I suggested:
Instrument Serif + Geist + IBM Plex Mono.
After studying this YC cohort, I'd reduce the serif substantially.
The strongest consumer/personal-AI YC sites currently lean toward very clean sans
typography, because the product itself has to feel like software rather than a
philosophical manifesto.
So now I'd do:
Main: Geist / Inter-like grotesk
Technical: IBM Plex Mono
Serif: used extremely sparingly in founder/research-story material
That makes the interface feel modern and operational.
Then we get humanity through spacing, animation and copy rather than a giant
fashion-editorial typeface.


Color
I also would not go full dark.
That's overwhelmingly associated with developer AI infrastructure right now: Mem0,
Cua, Kernel and many agent infrastructure companies use dark/black technical
aesthetics. Cua's current site is centered around fleet/runtime infrastructure, while
Kernel uses hard performance claims and browser demos. (Cua)
Our category is more personal.
I'd keep:
Canvas: #F4F2EC
Ink: #111210
Muted: #686B68
And give the continuity line one recognizable ALICE color.


                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                            80 / 456
Maybe a deep desaturated cobalt:
#536E91

Then use semantic colors only when meaningful:
Evidence: amber
Conflict: muted red
Outcome success: restrained green
Inference: violet/gray
Not decorative gradients.
Color means something in ALICE.


One more very important competitor: Epicenter
Epicenter S25 is local-first, open source and explicitly describes multiple apps sharing
a common memory stored in plain text/SQLite, with users free to choose models and
retain their data. (Y Combinator)
So even these aren't individually unique anymore:

  local-first
  model independent
  open
  portable
  memory

Those should absolutely appear on our site.
But they cannot be the main story.
Our main story needs to be the cognitive architecture above those primitives.
That is why I now feel much stronger about:

Experience → Judgment
rather than

Data → Memory
as ALICE's visual axis.

                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                             81 / 456
My ranking after this research
If I'm designing ALICE tomorrow, the sites I'd keep open beside Figma would be:
Oki for product and trust design.
Rowboat for demo architecture.
Pickle specifically to make sure we don't accidentally look like them.
Pally for narrative clarity.
Mem0 for technical proof.
Folk as a reminder not to overdesign.
And I'd almost completely stop looking at generic “best AI websites” galleries.
The direct YC competitors are far more informative.

The big conclusion
I think our previous concept was about 80% right.
The research changes the remaining 20%, but that 20% matters a lot:

  Don't make ALICE's design about memory. Memory is already crowded.
  Make it about continuity that becomes judgment.

That's much closer to what ALICE actually is, and it gives us a website concept I
haven't found in this YC cohort.
The next logical step is for me to turn this research plus the actual ALICE/Friday
architecture into a full Figma/Stitch design specification: exact page hierarchy,
every section, desktop/mobile layout, typography scale, spacing system, animations,
interactive hero states, components, copy, and a master AI prompt capable of
generating the first design exploration. That would be the point where we stop
researching and actually start designing.


  Sources

  Oki: The digital home for your personal memories | Y Combinator ycombinator.com

  Oki Home — Your AI, locally. okihome.ai

  Rowboat - Your AI coworker, with memory rowboatlabs.com

                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                             82 / 456
 https://pally.com/ pally.com

 https://caddy.app/ caddy.app

 https://askjo.ai/ askjo.ai

 folk - the friend in your texts folk.com

 https://mem0.ai/ mem0.ai

 https://cua.ai/ cua.ai

8/28/2026, 2:53:54 PM




                              🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter   83 / 456
                             @Web search ok. seems like we struct a serious issue
                             on the novelity of our idea behind alice. Do a deep
                             research on the first couple startups you mentioned.
                             did they already pitched what we're tryna pitch for
                             alice? do we have any novelity? cause yc wont fund us
                             for things they already funded
                                                                        8/28/2026, 3:00:23 PM




I’m treating this as a competitive-thesis audit, not a design exercise. I’m going to
compare ALICE against the closest YC companies at the level of what they claim,
what they actually ship, what architecture they expose, and what YC likely
believed was the wedge—then I’ll separate “already funded” from “still novel
enough to pitch.”
A major thing already emerged: “YC funded them” does not necessarily mean
YC funded their current personal-AI pitch. Pickle entered YC as an AI body-
double/video-call product; Oki’s YC launch was personalized company-progress
updates; Pally launched as AI relationship management. Several of the scary overlaps
are post-YC pivots/expansions, which materially changes the conclusion.
The second important finding is less comfortable: Pickle is a genuinely close
conceptual competitor today. Its current pitch includes episodic memories
(“bubbles”), inferred hypotheses about the user (“clouds”), connections across long
periods, proactive suggestions, editable memory, and even a conversational partner
that can challenge the user rather than always agree. That overlaps several ideas we
thought might be uniquely ALICE.
The good news is that I still see a meaningful gap—but we need to define ALICE
around that gap, not around “AI that knows you.”

  Thinking
  ●
      Searched 1 website

  🌐 Searching the web
       ycombinator.com   github.com   rowboatlabs.com   rowboat.homes


                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                 84 / 456
       news.ycombinator.com

  ●
      Narrowing novelty claims
      I’m treating Pickle, Oki, Rowboat, and Mem0 as meaningful overlaps. ALICE still
      appears differentiated through mission graphs, outcome-based learning, provenance,
      portable identity, host adapters, and local vendor independence, so claims should stay
      narrow.
  ●
      Narrowed novelty claims

  🌐 Searching the web
       ycombinator.com       okihome.ai       aventure.vc         openagent.shop    vibecrowd.fund

       hub.baai.ac.cn      iconb.cn      adalagent.ai

  ●
      Broadening overlap analysis
      I’m noting that “continuously learns over time” is common language, especially across
      Oki and other personal-AI products. I’m checking adjacent systems to separate ALICE’s
      distinctive architecture from broadly shared positioning.
  ●
      Broadened overlap analysis
  ●
      Searched 5 websites

  🌐 Searching the web
       personal.ai      github.com     openmind.advatar.systems           papers.ssrn.com     timeless.ai

       hebb.io       membria.ai

  🌐 Searching the web
       hebb.io       lunora.me     sarathios.com        blab.au     webnuz.com      lifepulseai.app

       zenova.n3art.io      github.com      planetposition.com         forbes.com

  ●
      Searched 7 websites

  ✓ Worked for 1m 40s


Yes. We found a real issue, but it is not “YC already funded this, so ALICE is dead.”
The deeper research gives a more nuanced and actually more useful answer:

  The broad vision we were using for ALICE is no longer novel in 2026.
  But the full ALICE architecture is not what these YC companies are publicly
  building, and YC explicitly does fund competing companies. The problem is that we

                                  🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                             85 / 456
  were about to describe ALICE using the parts of it that are least differentiated.

That means we need to change the pitch before we apply.

First: your assumption about YC is wrong
YC does not have a “we funded one version, so we won't fund another” rule.
A 2024 analysis of nearly 5,000 YC companies found YC repeatedly funds very similar
or directly competing startups. More than a dozen AI code-editor startups alone went
through YC between 2022 and 2024. A YC spokesperson told TechCrunch that YC
focuses primarily on the founders' potential rather than requiring the business idea to
be unique. (TechCrunch)
YC's historical FAQ was even more explicit: when asked whether it funds multiple
startups working on the same idea, its answer was yes, noting that overlap is
unavoidable and that startups change direction constantly. (Hacker News)
And YC's current application advice effectively says the same thing from another
direction: they don't reject something merely because an incumbent exists. They want
you to explain your specific toehold and why your approach can win. Their
example is literally that they'd be interested in a new search engine competing with
Google if the founder could explain a credible wedge. (Y Combinator)
So competition is not the fatal problem.
Indistinguishability is.


What I found when I audited the competitors
Here is how much I think their current public thesis overlaps with what we've been
planning.

                                             Did YC originally
                       Current overlap       fund that exact
Company                with ALICE vision     thesis?                 Biggest overlap

Pickle                 Very high - ~75-      No. YC page shows       Lifelong context,
                       85% at vision level   original launch as AI   episodic memory,
                                             body double for video   hypotheses about user,
                                             calls                   proactive AI,
                                                                     disagreement


                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                               86 / 456
                                            Did YC originally
                        Current overlap     fund that exact
Company                 with ALICE vision   thesis?                 Biggest overlap

Oki                     High - ~60-70%      No. YC launch was       Local personal data,
                                            company-                lifelong memory,
                                            progress/project        sources, action,
                                            tracking                auditing, privacy

Rowboat                 Moderate/high -     Not its current form;   Local knowledge graph,
                        ~50-60%             major memory/work-      model choice,
                                            surface releases came   persistent memory,
                                            in 2025-26              agents/actions

Mem0                    Moderate - ~30-     Yes. Memory was         Persistent memory,
                        40%                 explicitly its YC S24   learning from
                                            pitch                   interactions

Pally                   Moderate - ~40-     No. YC launch was AI    Whole-life context,
                        50%                 relationship            proactive tasks,
                                            management              compounding memory


Those percentages are my qualitative estimates, not measured market data.
And Pickle is the one we need to take extremely seriously.


Pickle is much closer than I originally realized
YC's current description of Pickle is:

  a “personal, memory-based operating system” that continuously learns real-world
  context, preferences and intent so AI can become proactive rather than reactive. (Y
  Combinator)

That alone sounds dangerously close.
But then I found their founder's descriptions of the underlying system.
Pickle creates episodic units of the user's life called “bubbles.” It generates
“clouds,” which are questions and hypotheses about the user. The user can
confirm those hypotheses, turning them into established memories. (LinkedIn)


                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                   87 / 456
Their launch presentation goes further.
Pickle:

    continuously captures lived context;
    connects episodic memories;
    predicts user intentions;
    proactively surfaces actions and suggestions;
    lets the user inspect/edit memories;
    develops a long-running contextual model;
    and explicitly says its conversational AI doesn't always agree with the user
    and can challenge them. (LinkedIn)

That wipes out several things we might have claimed as unique:
“AI that grows with you” - not unique.
“AI that remembers your whole life” - not unique.
“AI that builds a model of you” - not unique.
“AI that forms hypotheses about you” - not unique.
“AI that becomes proactive” - not unique.
“AI that can disagree with you” - not unique.
That is the serious part of the research.


But there's an important YC detail
YC did not originally select Pickle for this idea.
Its YC page preserves the original launch:
“Pickle - AI Body Double for Video Calls.”
Its initial product replaced your Zoom camera with an AI-generated virtual body
double. (Y Combinator)
The current “personal memory operating system / soul computer / AR glasses” thesis
is a substantial evolution afterward.
So this is not a case of:

                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                          88 / 456
  “Rayan wants to pitch X and YC already funded X.”

It's more like:

  “YC funded a strong team doing A; that team later discovered X and moved heavily
  toward X.”

That is actually evidence that YC-backed founders themselves think this category is
becoming important.


Oki is another significant overlap
Oki's current proposition is almost brutally close to the local/privacy half of Friday.
Their homepage says:

  “A private place for your digital life. On device intelligence that actually
  gets it.”

They ingest:
photos, files, apps, AI chats and other personal context.
They then offer:
Memory: index your life's context.
Intelligence: answer questions across years of your data.
Action: act using that context.
Action Log: show what changed, why, and which sources were involved. (Oki Home)
And everything runs on their own home AI hardware, with a removable 2-16 TB “Mem-
chip,” local GPU inference, source-backed retrieval, local voice and an emphasis on full
ownership. (Oki Home)
That means these ALICE/Friday claims are also not unique enough to lead with:
local-first
your data belongs to you
private AI


                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                  89 / 456
sources behind memories
audit trail
whole-life search
AI acts using personal context
model runs locally
Oki owns a very credible version of that pitch already.


Again, though: YC didn't select them for this exact idea
Their YC launch was:

  “Oki AI - Personalized Updates on Company Progress.”

It read team code, tickets, docs and messages and generated personalized updates
for company leaders. (Y Combinator)
Oki Home is a later pivot.
That pattern is appearing repeatedly.


Rowboat overlaps heavily with our implementation
layer
Rowboat is less threatening to the whole-life cognition thesis, but technically it
overlaps a lot.
Their current system:

    converts email, meetings, Slack and chats into a living knowledge graph;
    stores it locally as readable Markdown;
    continuously updates people/projects/topics;
    acts using that graph;
    runs persistent agents;
    learns from edits;
    can use GPT, Claude, Gemini or fully local models;
    works on the user's machine. (Y Combinator)

                             🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                           90 / 456
That's very close to:

  persistent memory + graph + actions + local storage + model-independent
  execution.

And their 2026 releases were explicit:
Nov 2025: Rowboat CLI
Feb 2026: living Knowledge graph
Jul 2026: Work Surfaces (Y Combinator)
So again, much of its current overlap emerged after its S24 YC batch.
But this means we cannot pretend that a knowledge graph and model routing
constitute a moat.
They don't.


Mem0 is different
Mem0 is the one where YC actually did fund the overlapping idea directly.
Its YC launch pitch was explicitly:

  “Open Source Memory Layer for AI Apps.”

Their problem statement was that LLMs are stateless. Their solution stores and
retrieves interactions to create personalized systems that improve over time. (Y
Combinator)
Today Mem0 says:

  “AI memory that persists across sessions and agents.”

It provides production memory infrastructure, compression, retrieval, graph/context
management and tooling for developers. (Mem0)
But Mem0 is fundamentally infrastructure.
They aren't trying to build the full consumer cognitive system we're building.
So they are more likely to become a technology competitor/component than a direct
product equivalent.

                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                              91 / 456
Pally overlaps with the consumer assistant surface
Pally now connects iMessage, WhatsApp, email, calendars, Slack, Drive, Notion, Linear
and other applications.
It remembers details across those sources, gives daily briefs, makes proactive
suggestions, researches, performs web actions, books things and can even make
phone calls. Their site explicitly describes “memory that compounds.” (Pally)
But again, YC originally funded Pally as AI relationship management-tracking
personal/professional relationships across social channels-not as the entire life
assistant it presents today. (Y Combinator)
So Pally occupies:
context → reminders → tasks → execution
much more strongly than:
personal cognitive architecture → long-term model formation → outcome
learning → epistemic judgment.


Then I checked outside YC
And this is where I want to be especially careful not to give you false confidence.
The broad concept is even less novel than the YC comparison alone suggests.
Personal AI has been explicitly developing:
one person → one AI
user-owned Memory Stack
continuous personal model training
persistent evolving identity
memory + identity
for years. Their current materials describe memory accumulating experiences into an
evolving AI identity and earlier MODEL-1 materials explicitly described personal
models that continually train on individual memory. (Personal AI)
So:

  “Every user gets an AI that eventually becomes uniquely theirs”

                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                              92 / 456
is also not novel.
And then I found something even closer to the specific direction we just identified.


The “what happened next” idea isn't entirely
unique either
HEBB LABS currently describes a Personal Decision OS built around:

  signal → reasoning → decision → outcome → model update

They explicitly say the system tracks what happens after a decision and uses real-
world outcomes to update the person's model. Their positioning is essentially that
general AI remembers context while their system learns identity, decisions, behavior
and what happens next. (HEBB LABS)
So my previous thought:

  “ALICE remembers what happened next.”

is a strong positioning direction.
But I would not call the underlying concept unique anymore.
Someone else is publicly articulating an outcome-tested personal decision loop.


So... is ALICE actually novel?
Here's my answer after all of this research:

The category vision: no.
If we describe ALICE as:

  “A private personal AI that remembers your life, learns who you are, grows with you
  and proactively helps you.”

then no, that's not meaningfully novel anymore.
Pickle is extremely close.
Oki covers privacy/local memory.


                             🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                             93 / 456
Pally covers proactive whole-life assistance.
Rowboat covers persistent local context/action.
Personal AI covers individual evolving model identity.
Mem0 covers persistent memory infrastructure.
We would sound like another entrant in an increasingly obvious category.
I would not submit that YC application.


But the specific ALICE architecture is different
When I go back to what we've actually designed rather than our simplified marketing
description, the interesting combination is different.
A.L.I.C.E. isn't designed merely as:

  personal data
       ↓
  memory
       ↓
  personalized assistant


The current architecture is closer to:

                              PERSON
                                 │
                                 ▼
                               GOALS
                                 │
                            Mission Graph
                                 │
                 ┌───────────────┴───────────────┐
                 │                               │
              CONTEXT                         HISTORY
                 │                               │
                 ▼                               ▼
             EVIDENCE                     Experience Ledger
                 │                               │
                 └───────────────┬───────────────┘
                                 ▼
                              JUDGMENT

                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                         94 / 456
                                 │
                                 ▼
                              DECISION
                                 │
                                 ▼
                               ACTION
                                 │
                                 ▼
                              OUTCOME
                                 │
                                 ▼
                            CORRECTION
                                 │
                                 ▼
                               LESSON
                                 │
                                 ▼
                     MEMORY / SKILL / MODEL
                                 │
                                 │
                                 └──────────────→ future judgment


The ALICE Experience Ledger explicitly connects request → context → evidence →
model/tool → decision → action → result → correction → lesson.
And that isn't operating independently. It is connected to the Mission Graph, which
represents long-running goals, dependencies, conflicts and outcomes across otherwise
disconnected tasks.
That's the first meaningful distinction.


Difference 1: memory vs. causal life history
Pickle's Bubbles appear to answer:

  What happened in the person's life?

ALICE is intended to additionally preserve:

  Why did we make this decision?
  What evidence influenced it?

                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                         95 / 456
  What did we expect?
  What action followed?
  What happened afterward?
  Was ALICE right?
  Was the owner right?
  What should change next time?

That turns memory into something closer to a longitudinal causal record.
HEBB overlaps with decision → outcome learning.
But HEBB is explicitly a decision system.
ALICE's architecture tries to make that loop a substrate for all cognition:
career, projects, research, planning, software, relationships between missions, tools,
learning and eventually model adaptation.
That's broader.


Difference 2: Mission Graph
I haven't found a close consumer competitor among these YC companies publicly
describing ALICE's particular idea of goals as persistent structured state.
Rowboat has a knowledge graph.
Pickle has connected memory bubbles.
Those are not the same thing.
A knowledge graph says:

  Rayan
   ├─ knows Sarah
   ├─ works on Project X
   └─ discussed Topic Y


A Mission Graph says:

  GOAL: Become an ML researcher
   │
   ├─ Strengthen technical portfolio
   │     ├─ research

                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                             96 / 456
   │     └─ open source
   │
   ├─ Get internship
   │     ├─ resume
   │     ├─ applications
   │     └─ interview
   │
   └─ Graduate study
         │
         ├──── conflicts with finances
         └──── depends on research outcome


and tracks:
active / parked / resolved
dependencies
conflicts
decisions
outcomes
supersession
reopening
That is much closer to an ongoing model of what the person is trying to
accomplish, rather than a model of what the person knows or has experienced.
That distinction could matter a lot.


Difference 3: epistemic memory
Another underappreciated part of ALICE is that a memory isn't simply “something
remembered.”
The architecture distinguishes:
owner statement
verified observation
external claim
inference
prediction


                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                          97 / 456
reconstruction
correction
disputed record
outdated belief
with provenance and confidence.
Pickle's Clouds are somewhat similar because they distinguish hypotheses from
confirmed memories.
So again, we're not alone.
But ALICE goes farther in trying to make provenance, correction, deletion and
downstream influence part of the cognitive architecture rather than merely UI-level
editable memory.
That should be one of the technical moat areas.


Difference 4: outcome learning changes more than
memory
This is the part I think we should push much harder technically.
ALICE is intended eventually to let experience change:

  memory
  beliefs
  preferences
  skills
  strategies
  routing
  rankers
  adapters
  future model state


not merely retrieve a different memory.
The roadmap explicitly includes host-specific rankers, routers, preference models,
adapters, automated dataset curation and continual model adaptation. (Ithub)
Pickle publicly talks about contextual learning.
Personal AI explicitly talks about continuous personal-model training.
So parameter adaptation itself isn't unique either.

                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                               98 / 456
The difference we'd need to prove is:

  ALICE uses evaluated real-world consequences to decide what personal
  learning deserves to become durable model/skill/memory change.

That combination is stronger.


Difference 5: identity survives model replacement
Rowboat can use different models.
Oki runs a local model.
That's different from the stronger ALICE claim:

  The personal intelligence is not the foundation model.

Replace GPT.
Replace Claude.
Replace a local Llama-family model.
Memory remains.
History remains.
Mission state remains.
Learned skills remain.
Personal judgment state remains.
Eventually personal adapters can be migrated/rebuilt.
The Friday architecture explicitly separates the replaceable general model layer from
structured personal, procedural, parametric-personal and identity layers.
That combination is still unusual.
But Personal AI is moving in similar territory, so again we shouldn't claim invention of
“persistent identity.”


Difference 6: privacy is structural, not the pitch
Oki has largely taken the obvious:

                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                               99 / 456
  “Your entire AI runs locally and your data remains yours.”

So don't fight them by screaming LOCAL-FIRST louder.
Instead make privacy an architectural enabler:

  The only way an AI can safely build this deep a longitudinal model is if the personal
  intelligence belongs to the user.

That's much stronger.
The Friday architecture calls for host-held keys, no vendor-readable personal state,
visible outbound data behavior, local training and portable encrypted personal state.
Privacy becomes the prerequisite for deep personalization.
Not the product itself.


So what I would pitch to YC now
NOT:

  We're building a local personal AI that remembers everything about you and
  becomes more useful over time.

That's Oki + Pickle + Personal AI.
NOT:

  We're building an AI operating system that understands your whole life.

That's dangerously close to Pickle.
NOT:

  We're building AI memory that persists forever.

Mem0.
NOT:

  We're building an AI that connects all your apps and proactively does things.

                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                            100 / 456
Pally.
Instead, I think the thesis needs to be:

   We're building a personal AI that learns from the consequences of its own
   advice.
   Most personal AI systems are building better memory: what you said, did, saw and
   prefer. ALICE builds a longitudinal model of goals, decisions and outcomes. It
   remembers why a decision was made, tracks what happened afterward, and uses
   that evidence to change future judgment. The personal state remains independent
   of whichever foundation model happens to be running underneath it.

And then one sentence underneath:

   Memory tells an AI who you were. Outcomes teach it how to help you next
   time.

That's substantially stronger.


But I would narrow it even further for YC
The thing YC will immediately ask is:
“Cool. Show me.”
We should be able to demonstrate:

  DAY 1
  User chooses A over B.

  ALICE recommendation:
  Choose A.

  Reason:
  Evidence 1
  Evidence 2
  Goal 3

                       ↓



                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                        101 / 456
  30 DAYS LATER

  Outcome:
  A produced X.
  A caused unexpected Y.
  Original assumption #2 was wrong.

                        ↓

  ALICE UPDATES

  Preference ≠ outcome.
  Planning assumption weakened.
  Estimated workload model corrected.
  Decision pattern changed.

                        ↓

  6 MONTHS LATER

  Similar decision appears.

  ALICE:
  Last time I recommended A for the same reason.

  I was wrong about workload.

  Given what happened afterward,
  I recommend B this time.

  [see evidence]


That demo is much more interesting than “ask ALICE what restaurant I
mentioned six months ago.”
Oki can crush us at that latter demo.
Pickle can probably crush us at it too.
So don't fight there.


The truly important startup insight
                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter              102 / 456
I think we were making the classic error of trying to make ALICE easy to explain by
reducing it to:

   memory + personalization

Unfortunately, by 2026 that has become obvious enough that multiple YC companies
independently converged on it.
But our actual project has gone much farther than that simplification.
The repo says the purpose is not merely remembering conversations. It explicitly tries
to connect decisions to goals, outcomes and future judgment through the Mission
Graph and Experience Ledger.
That's the part we should build the company around.
Not because every individual mechanism is unprecedented.
It isn't.
But because I currently do not see a YC company among the closest competitors
publicly presenting the whole combination:

   **whole-life mission state

        evidence-aware memory
        decision provenance
        consequence tracking
        outcome-driven learning
        explainable disagreement
        model-independent personal continuity
        user-controlled personal state**

as its core product.
Pickle comes closest on the left side.
HEBB comes closest on the decision/outcome side.
Oki comes closest on privacy/ownership.


                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                          103 / 456
Rowboat comes closest on local graph/action.
Personal AI comes closest on evolving identity/model.
ALICE is trying to join those into one cognitive loop.
That is our differentiated thesis.
But-and this is important-we only get to call it a moat when we build and
demonstrate it.
Architecture diagrams aren't a moat.
A 60-second demo where ALICE remembers a decision, observes its consequence,
updates its model, and makes a demonstrably different judgment three months later?
That starts becoming one.


What this means for our YC chances
I am actually less worried about YC funding a competitor now than I was when
you first raised this, but more worried about our wording.
If we applied saying:

  “Persistent personal AI that grows with you.”

I'd expect a YC reviewer to think:
Pickle. Oki. Pally. Personal AI. Why this one?
That's bad.
If we apply saying:

  “Today's personal AIs learn what you like. We're building one that learns
  whether its advice was right.”

now we have a conversation.
Then when they ask what makes it technically different, we show them:
Mission Graph + Experience Ledger + provenance-aware memory + outcome
evaluation + model-independent personal state.




                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                      104 / 456
And when they ask whether this is just an idea, we point to the actual A.L.I.C.E.
implementation and the amount of architecture/testing already completed,
instead of pitching a hypothetical system.
One additional thing I would change immediately: stop calling “memory” the core
moat in our website and YC materials. Memory should become one layer of the
system. The core narrative should become something like longitudinal judgment /
outcome learning / cognitive continuity.
That is where I think ALICE still has room to be a genuinely differentiated company.


  Sources

  https://techcrunch.com/2024/11/22/y-combinator-often-backs-         techcrunch.com
  startups-that-duplicate-other-yc-companies-data-shows-its-not-just-
  ai-code-editors/

  https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=2130136 news.ycombinator.com

  https://www.ycombinator.com/howtoapply ycombinator.com

  https://www.linkedin.com/posts/danielpkl_ill-share-a-small-part-of-        linkedin.com
  picklecom-back-activity-7395889279752839168-lm0i

  https://okihome.ai/ okihome.ai

  https://mem0.ai/ mem0.ai

  https://pally.com/ pally.com

  https://www.personal.ai/your-true-personal-ai personal.ai

  https://hebb.io/personal-intelligence hebb.io

  https://ithub.global.ssl.fastly.net/NIne-                     ithub.global.ssl.fastly.net
  WIngEd/A.L.I.C.E/blob/main/docs/ROADMAP.md

8/28/2026, 3:00:25 PM




                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                105 / 456
One additional thing I would change immediately: **stop calling “memory” the core
moat in our website and YC materials.** Memory should become one layer of the
system. The core narrative should become something like **longitudinal judgment /
outcome learning / cognitive continuity**. That is where I think ALICE still has room to
be a genuinely differentiated company.

                            @Web search ok. i agree. now, dig deeper into what
                            exact architecture those competing ai companies
                            using. are those similar to ours? are those better than
                            ours? are we better than them? what are the difference
                            we have? how our architecture is better (if not how can
                            we make it better than them). what learning can we
                            take and impletement for alice from their architecture?
                            is the current direction of alice the right direction?

                            Also, here's what alice is i understand: we frist creating
                            a personality model, where user will give their personal
                            data and we will create hypothesis and synthetic data
                            to complete the personality model so that it become a
                            clone of the user and have clone-aware identity (this is
                            idea novel or those competing companies claimed this
                            process too?). Then this personality model is the base
                            model of alice at the beginning. then as it starts
                            interacting with the user, it starts learning and start
                            creating its own personality model (i forgot what we
                            named this model). then it has a host learn model,
                            where it uses the same host provided data to learn
                            about its host and who they are (this is where alice is
                            unique from consumer models as alice will have
                            elaina's memory for personality model and my memory
                            for host model). and then a world model, and other
                            model where alice does all the functionalities and we
                            use components like neo4j, quadrant, and others i
                            forgot the names). and alice is the entity that connect
                            all these model into one living system (i am not sure
                            whether we did proper research on how exactly we
                            connecting them though).

                            right now, we in stage G and G


                         🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                              106 / 456
                                8/28/2026, 3:22:17 PM




🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                   107 / 456
                                                                            @Web search
                                                                           8/28/2026, 3:22:23 PM




I’m going one level deeper than the last audit: actual system architecture, not
marketing language. I’ll separate what competitors publicly disclose from what we
can only infer, then map each piece against ALICE’s current Stage G/G+ architecture
and recover the exact names of the personality/host/self-model layers we already
designed.
A new competitor surfaced that is even closer operationally: Sentient OS (YC F26).
It runs an on-device model over a user’s digital life nightly, writes a plain-Markdown
knowledge base, prepares proactive work, and then uses frontier models/computer-
use for execution. That means ALICE cannot rely on “local + whole life + proactive +
model choice” as differentiation either.
The comparison is getting more interesting than “we have more databases.”
Sentience is currently ahead of ALICE in one area I think we should admit
plainly: it has a much more concrete cognitive-process story for encoding → sleep
consolidation → constructive recall → spreading activation → executive control. ALICE
is stronger on authority, provenance, identity separation, deletion/rollback, and long-
term state correctness—but our cognitive executive that binds everything at
runtime is still less concretely specified/proven.

  Thinking
  🌐 Remembering
  ●
      Reviewed A.L.I.C.E. architecture, Stage G decisions, and evolving
      self-model
  ●
      Scoping the architecture comparison
      I’m preparing to compare competing AI architectures with Alice’s layered personality,
      identity, interaction-learning, and host-learning direction. I’ll clarify what appears
      novel, identify gaps, and suggest practical improvements without assuming proprietary
      details.



                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                   108 / 456
   ●
         Scoped the architecture comparison
   ●
         Assessing Alice’s architecture
         I’m distinguishing Alice’s conceptual design from implementation maturity. Its
         strongest differentiators are separated identity, host, relationship, memory, and self-
         continuity models; I’m also correcting the idea that one personality model should
         become the base model.
   ●
         Assessed Alice’s architecture

  ✓ Worked for 4m 41s


Yes. I dug into this at the architecture level, including the parts of the ALICE repo that
define identity formation, host learning, Stage G, the memory fabric, the
cognitive executive, and the roadmap, and then compared them against the
closest systems whose internals are actually public.
There is one correction I want to make immediately:

  Your understanding of ALICE is directionally right, but the Elaina
  Personality Model is not supposed to be ALICE's “base model.”

The foundation LLM remains replaceable. The Elaina model is an
identity/personality layer around/over that reasoning substrate. And the thing you
forgot the name of is the A.L.I.C.E. Continuity / Self Model.
That distinction becomes extremely important after seeing what competitors are
doing.

My conclusion
ALICE's current architectural direction is fundamentally good. I would not
throw it away.
But after this research, I would change and strengthen several parts of it before
we consider the cognitive architecture settled.
In particular:
ALICE is ahead architecturally in:

       source-person / host / self identity separation;


                               🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                       109 / 456
    epistemic authority and provenance;
    bitemporal knowledge;
    correction/deletion/rollback;
    explicit Experience → Decision → Outcome lineage;
    Mission Graph concept;
    model independence;
    auditable learning and model lineage.

ALICE is behind the best competitors/research in:

    concrete memory-consolidation algorithms;
    retrieval algorithms and benchmark evidence;
    associative recall;
    explicit belief/opinion evolution;
    a fully specified runtime cognitive executive;
    simplicity;
    productized continuous perception;
    actual deployed longitudinal learning.

And there is one company I didn't emphasize enough before:

Sentience is probably the closest architectural competitor to
the destination ALICE.
Not Pickle.
Sentience publicly describes working, episodic, semantic and procedural memory;
elaborative encoding; offline consolidation; constructive recall; associative spreading
activation; executive control; values; self-narrative; eventual global workspace and
emergent personality. (sentience.com)
So we need to learn from them.


First, this is what ALICE actually is

                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                            110 / 456
Your mental model was close, but the current ratified architecture is more precise than
you remembered.
The identity portion is:

                             SOURCE PERSON
                               Elaina
                                  │
                                  ▼
                          SOURCE_HISTORY
                       real source evidence
                                  │
                                  ▼
                      SOURCE_PERSON_MODEL
                                  │
                       Elaina Identity /
                       Personality Model
                                  │
                                  │
                           ┌─────┴─────┐
                           │            │
                reconstruction      uncertainty
                  inference
                           │
                           ▼
                     ┌───────────┐
                     │ A.L.I.C.E.│
                     └─────┬─────┘
                           │
             post-activation experiences
                           │
                           ▼
                  ALICE_CONTINUITY
                     / SELF MODEL



  HOST
  Rayan
    │
    ▼
  RAYAN HOST / OWNER MODEL


                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                           111 / 456
    │
    ├──────────────┐
    │              │
    ▼              ▼
  goals         preferences
  projects      current state
  routines      predictions
    │
    ▼
  ALICE-RAYAN
  RELATIONSHIP MODEL


Those separations are explicitly ratified in the repo.
And the more detailed architecture names five major identity/learning components:

Component                                      What it is

Elaina Identity / Personality Model            How the reconstructed source identity tends to
                                               interpret, judge, communicate and respond

Memory Formation Model                         Learns how to interpret incoming experiences
                                               and propose memories

Rayan Host / Owner Model                       What ALICE knows and predicts about its host

A.L.I.C.E.-Rayan Relationship Model            Their evolving relationship, shared history,
                                               habits, boundaries and interaction strategy

A.L.I.C.E. Continuity / Self Model             What ALICE itself becomes through its own post-
                                               activation existence


That is already in the architecture.
So when you said:

  “then as it starts interacting with the user, it starts learning and start creating its
  own personality model”

almost.
What we called it is:


                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                      112 / 456
A.L.I.C.E. Continuity / Self Model
I actually prefer that over calling it a second personality model.
The Elaina-derived model remains the identity foundation.
ALICE_CONTINUITY records what ALICE itself experiences and becomes
afterward.
That avoids this conceptual mess:

  Is this an opinion Elaina held?
  Is this something ALICE inferred Elaina would think?
  Or is this something ALICE came to believe in 2028 after two years of its own
  experience?

Our architecture can distinguish all three.
That's a real strength.


Second correction: the Personality Model is not the
foundation LLM
This is crucial.
The architecture should not become:

  Elaina data
      ↓
  train an LLM
      ↓
  that LLM = ALICE


That would make us much closer to Personal AI.
Personal AI already lets people create digital twins from personal data using its
Personal Language Model approach. It explicitly advertises models trained on emails,
documents, meetings and messages to learn voice, philosophy and response style.
(Personal AI)
Instead, ours should remain:




                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                          113 / 456
                  A.L.I.C.E. IDENTITY
                           │
        ┌─────────────────┼─────────────────┐
        │                  │                  │
    identity           memories         continuity
    model              / beliefs           / self
        │                  │                  │
        └─────────────────┼─────────────────┘
                           │
                    Cognitive Executive
                           │
                           ▼
                    Model Router
               ┌──────────┼──────────┐
               │           │          │
            Model A     Model B    Model C
            local       frontier   specialist


The LLM is a reasoning engine.
The identity is not synonymous with that engine.
Your architecture document explicitly says this: base models are replaceable and
persistent identity instead resides across governed memory, beliefs, skills, adapters,
evaluation history and constitutional state.
I think that decision was correct.


Now compare that against the competitors
This is where things get interesting.




                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                            114 / 456
                                                                What ALICE has that
                                        What they're better     they don't publicly
System        Core architecture         at today                show

Pickle        Episodic “Bubbles” +      Productized user-       Separate
              generated user            model formation,        source/host/self
              hypotheses (“Clouds”)     continuous context,     identities; claim
              + long-horizon            consumer UX             authority; Mission
              context + proactive                               Graph; formal
              system                                            provenance

Sentience     Working + episodic +      Cognitive               Stronger epistemic
              semantic +                integration and         authority,
              procedural memory +       memory processes        source/host/self
              consolidation +                                   firewall,
              associative recall +                              decision/outcome
              executive architecture                            lineage

Oki           On-device whole-life      Privacy, hardware,      Deeper cognitive
              indexing + local          local operation,        models and governed
              inference + source-       shipping                learning
              backed answers +
              actions/action log

Sentient OS   Local nightly ingestion   Extreme simplicity,     Structured cognition,
              → cleaned summaries       local capture, actual   claim/belief/identity
              → Markdown                proactive product       separation
              knowledge base →
              frontier model/action

Rowboat       Markdown knowledge        Simplicity, editable    Bitemporal authority,
              graph + Qdrant +          memory, shipped         identity architecture,
              Mongo + Redis +           local product           lifecycle semantics
              agents

Mem0          ADD-only structured       Retrieval quality,      Whole cognitive
              memory + entity           efficiency,             system, identity,
              linking + hybrid          benchmarks              missions, self-model
              retrieval +
              background
              consolidation




                 🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                       115 / 456
                                                                      What ALICE has that
                                                What they're better   they don't publicly
System                 Core architecture        at today              show

Zep/Graphiti           Bitemporal temporal      Temporal graph        Broader cognitive
                       knowledge graph +        retrieval             architecture
                       hybrid
                       graph/vector/full-text
                       retrieval

Hindsight              World / Experience /     Epistemic memory      More extensive
                       Opinion / Observation    + beliefs +           identity, mission and
                       networks +               benchmarked           lifecycle architecture
                       Retain/Recall/Reflect    reasoning

HEBB                   Personal model +         Very clear outcome-   General cognitive
                       decisions + outcome      learning loop         architecture around it
                       validation → model
                       update

Personal AI            Personal Language        Digital twins /       Source-host-self
                       Model + Memory           personal-model        distinction and model-
                       Stack                    training              independent continuity


So there isn't one answer to:

  “Are they better than us?”

It depends what layer you're talking about.


Pickle vs ALICE
Pickle is extremely close to one part of what we're doing.
Their founder describes:
Bubbles = episodic units interpreted from raw life data.
Clouds = questions/hypotheses the system creates about who the user is.
When the user answers a Cloud, it becomes a Bubble. (LinkedIn)




                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                  116 / 456
Their current YC description goes further: continuous learning of context, preferences
and intent to create proactive personal intelligence. (Y Combinator)
That sounds remarkably similar to:

  raw experience
        ↓
  Memory Formation Model
        ↓
  candidate interpretation
        ↓
  uncertainty
        ↓
  host/personality model



So did Pickle beat us to hypothesis formation?
At a broad conceptual level:
yes.
We cannot claim:

  “Our AI creates hypotheses about the person rather than only storing memories”

as novel.
Pickle is publicly doing exactly that.
But there's an interesting difference.
Their founder explicitly says Pickle is:

  “Not a copy of you. Something that grows by knowing you.”

(LinkedIn)
ALICE is intentionally different.
Its source identity starts as an evidence-grounded reconstruction.
And then it grows from that foundation while retaining the boundary between:




                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                          117 / 456
  what Elaina actually did/said
  what we infer about Elaina
  what ALICE itself later experiences
  what ALICE knows about Rayan
  what ALICE and Rayan experience together


I found no public Pickle architecture describing those separations.
That doesn't mean their private implementation couldn't contain them.
It means they aren't part of the publicly documented thesis.


Sentience vs ALICE
This is the competitor I'd study most carefully now.
Sentience literally argues:

  “Memory is not a database. Cognition is not RAG.”

Their design is explicitly inspired by cognitive architecture rather than ordinary agent
stacks. (Sentience)
They currently describe:

  WORKING MEMORY
  15-minute sliding context

          ↓

  EPISODIC MEMORY
  timestamped multimodal episodes
  PostgreSQL + TurboPuffer

          ↓

  SEMANTIC MEMORY
  entity knowledge graph

          ↓




                              🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                          118 / 456
  PROCEDURAL MEMORY
  learned routines / skills


And then cognitive operations:

  ELABORATIVE ENCODING
          ↓
  SLEEP CONSOLIDATION
          ↓
  CONSTRUCTIVE RECALL
          ↓
  ASSOCIATIVE RECALL
          ↓
  EXECUTIVE FUNCTION


They even specify one retrieval reranker as approximately:
40% relevance + 30% recency + 30% active-context match. (Sentience)
Their roadmap also includes hierarchical goals, conflict detection, inhibition, sustained
task execution, values learned from observation, internal emotional state,
metacognition, self-narrative, global workspace and emergent personality. (Sentience)
That is very close to the philosophical destination of ALICE.

Where I think Sentience is currently ahead
They have a cleaner concrete story for:
how cognition happens continuously.
We have a very sophisticated set of planes:

  Experience Fabric
  Claim Fabric
  Cognitive Graph
  Vector Plane
  Mission Graph
  Host Model
  Self Model
  World Model
  Workspace




                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                              119 / 456
  Memory Formation Model
  ...


But a set of databases and models doesn't automatically become a mind.
Sentience has spent more effort publicly specifying the processes between the
stores:

  encode
  consolidate
  associate
  retrieve
  broadcast
  inhibit
  select
  act


That is the main weakness I found in ALICE.


Where ALICE is stronger than Sentience
Our memory isn't merely:

  episode → semantic graph


We explicitly separate:

  EVIDENCE
     ↓
  EXPERIENCE FABRIC
     ↓
  candidate interpretation
     ↓
  MEMORY GATE
     ↓
  CLAIM FABRIC
     ↓
  derived projections


The Claim Fabric is designed as append-only bitemporal adjudicated knowledge.


                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                        120 / 456
It distinguishes:

    when something was true;
    when ALICE learned it;
    evidence supporting it;
    confidence;
    contradiction;
    correction;
    supersession;
    deletion.

Sentience's public architecture doesn't currently show that degree of epistemic
machinery.
And here's something interesting.
Zep/Graphiti has independently converged on part of our approach.
Graphiti explicitly uses bi-temporal knowledge: facts track both real-world validity and
database/ingestion history. Old facts are invalidated rather than simply disappearing.
(Zep)
That makes me more confident, not less, in ALICE's Claim Fabric decision.
The industry is independently moving toward temporal/epistemic memory.


Hindsight is another architecture we should learn
from
Hindsight is particularly interesting because it noticed a problem extremely similar to
ours:

  facts, experiences, inferences and beliefs should not all be treated as the same kind
  of memory.

Their architecture separates four networks:

  WORLD
  objective external facts

                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                             121 / 456
  EXPERIENCE
  what the agent experienced/did

  OPINION
  subjective beliefs + confidence

  OBSERVATION
  higher-order synthesized knowledge


Then uses:

  RETAIN
  RECALL
  REFLECT


(arXiv)
This is remarkably aligned with ALICE's concern about epistemic integrity.
And Hindsight has actual benchmark evidence. With a 20B open model, the paper
reports LongMemEval rising from 39% full-context baseline to 83.6%; larger
backbones reached 91.4%. (arXiv)

What I would take from Hindsight
ALICE has a Claim Fabric and says beliefs are separate cognitive structures.
But I think we should make the separation more explicit:

  CLAIM FABRIC
  what evidence supports as reality

  BELIEF FABRIC
  what ALICE currently believes

  PREDICTION FABRIC
  what ALICE expects

  VALUE / PREFERENCE MODEL
  what ALICE evaluates things against


A belief should reference claims and experiences.

                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                         122 / 456
It should have:

  confidence
  evidence_for
  evidence_against
  formed_at
  updated_at
  superseded_by
  counterfactuals
  prediction history


That would make ALICE's judgment layer considerably more rigorous.


Mem0 is currently better than us at retrieval
engineering
There isn't much point pretending otherwise.
Mem0's current production pipeline has moved toward:

  interaction
      ↓
  single-pass ADD-only extraction
      ↓
  memory store
      ├── semantic index
      ├── keyword index
      └── entity index
                ↓
        multi-signal retrieval
                ↓
              rerank


They stopped modifying or deleting facts during extraction.
Instead they append new information and preserve history. (Mem0)
They also added background “Dream” consolidation:

  duplicates → merge
  outdated state → supersede



                         🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter               123 / 456
  repeated behavior → synthesize


while retaining history. (Mem0)
And they report roughly 92.5 LoCoMo and 94.4 LongMemEval with around 7K retrieved
tokens/query in their latest published benchmark material. Those are vendor-reported
numbers, so we should independently reproduce comparisons rather than blindly
accept them. (Mem0)

This exposes a weakness in our current plan
Our Memory Formation Model is conceptually good.
But we shouldn't make every new interaction go through an expensive giant semantic
adjudication operation before the user can continue.
I think we should use:

  FAST PATH

  experience
    ↓
  append raw event
    ↓
  lightweight extraction
    ↓
  provisional candidates
    ↓
  continue interaction


Then:

  SLOW / SLEEP PATH

  recent experiences
  + current claims
  + graph
  + missions
  + outcomes
       ↓
  deep consolidation
       ↓


                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                        124 / 456
  conflict detection
       ↓
  belief revision
       ↓
  pattern formation
       ↓
  host/self/world updates


This combines the good part of Mem0, Pickle and Sentience.
And it fits ALICE naturally.


Rowboat reveals the opposite problem: we may be
overengineering
I inspected their open-source repository rather than relying on marketing.
Their RAG ingestion is straightforward:

  file / URL / text
         ↓
  extract Markdown
         ↓
  1024-char-ish chunks
         ↓
  embeddings
         ↓
  Qdrant


The actual worker code uses LangChain text splitting, embeddings and Qdrant.
Their app dependencies expose Qdrant, MongoDB, Redis, S3, MCP, agent tooling and
related pieces.
And their knowledge system is deliberately understandable as human-editable
Markdown/backlinks.
That's vastly simpler than our proposed:

  KurrentDB
  + bitemporal SQL
  + Neo4j
  + Qdrant

                               🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                   125 / 456
  + Redis
  + MinIO
  + Temporal
  + vLLM
  + MLflow
  + training infrastructure
  ...


Is our architecture therefore worse?
No.
But there is a real danger:

architectural sophistication can become architectural vanity.
Stage G currently calls for evaluating 31 unique concrete technologies across
individual, pairwise, cross-plane and integrated qualification.
Scientifically, that is impressive.
For a startup, it could become absurdly expensive in founder time.
We should keep the capability-neutral contracts.
But I would not let ALICE spend months proving:

  FalkorDB vs Memgraph vs Neptune vs Neo4j vs every possible vector database

unless the comparison meaningfully affects cognition.
The moat is not which graph database wins.
The moat is what ALICE does with memory.


Sentient OS gives us the same lesson
Sentient OS, a YC F26 company, currently takes an almost aggressively simple
approach.
Every night:

  files
  screenshots


                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                       126 / 456
  WhatsApp
  iMessage
  Notes
  email
         ↓
  local model
         ↓
  keep / junk / sensitive
         ↓
  PII-stripped summaries
         ↓
  frontier consolidation
         ↓
  plain Markdown knowledge base
         ↓
  morning proactive actions


The knowledge base is literally an editable local folder. (GitHub)
That's nowhere near ALICE's destination cognitive architecture.
But they have something we don't yet:
a working end-to-end product loop people can understand.
We need both.


Now the really important question: is our clone
construction novel?
Broadly: no.
I don't want us fooling ourselves here.
“Train an AI representation of a person from their personal data” already exists
commercially and academically.
Personal AI openly markets digital twins trained from personal data. (Personal AI)
Sentience's entire mission is to create “a unique model of your mind” from memories,
relationships, decisions, values, judgment and voice. (Sentience)
A 2025 Human Digital Twin paper describes LLMs combined with dynamically updated
personal data to reproduce conversational style, memories and behavior. (arXiv)


                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                              127 / 456
There are even benchmarks now for continuous human-behavior simulation.
BehaviorChain contains more than 15,000 behaviors across 1,001 personas and finds
that state-of-the-art models still struggle to simulate people reliably over behavioral
sequences. (ACL Anthology)
So:

  “We create an AI clone from someone's data.”

is not our novelty.


What about generating hypotheses and synthetic
data to complete the clone?
This needs a correction.
I would not describe our architecture as “synthetic data completes the
missing personality.”
That is dangerous scientifically.
Our ratified identity standard actually says the opposite:

  unknowns remain unknown; reconstruction inference must remain distinguishable
  from source truth.

We should absolutely use synthetic data.
But like this:

  REAL SOURCE EVIDENCE
          │
          ▼
  observed traits / judgments
          │
          ▼
  HYPOTHESIS
  "Elaina would probably prefer X here"
  confidence = 0.68
          │
          ▼
  SYNTHETIC COUNTERFACTUALS

                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                            128 / 456
  many situations testing hypothesis
          │
          ▼
  candidate training set
          │
          ▼
  candidate identity model
          │
          ▼
  WITHHELD REAL-EVIDENCE EVALUATION
          │
      ┌───┴───┐
      │       │
    passes   fails
      │       │
   promote reject


Synthetic material is scaffolding.
It is never:

  synthetic prediction
        ↓
  pretend this really happened
        ↓
  SOURCE_HISTORY


Never.
Recent work does show that synthetic interaction trajectories can help personalization.
PersonaGym, for example, generates synthetic multi-turn preference behavior and
combines it with outcome-driven optimization. (arXiv)
But digital-twin research also shows fidelity is very dependent on real information
depth, and current systems still have substantial behavioral-simulation errors. (arXiv)
Our provenance firewall is therefore a very good idea.


What might actually be unusual about ALICE's
clone architecture
Not cloning itself.


                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                             129 / 456
This:

  SOURCE PERSON ≠ HOST ≠ AI SELF


That's much rarer.
For ALICE:

  SOURCE PERSON
  Elaina
     ↓
  inherited personality foundation



  HOST
  Rayan
     ↓
  person ALICE learns about



  AI SELF
  ALICE
     ↓
  new entity accumulating
  post-activation continuity


Those three can diverge forever without collapsing into each other.
Most digital-twin products are:

  USER = SOURCE PERSON = HOST


Sentience:

  you → digital you → helps you


Personal AI:

  you → personal model of you


Pickle explicitly isn't trying to clone the user at all. (LinkedIn)


                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter             130 / 456
There are relational digital-doppelgänger concepts and products that represent
someone for another person, so I still would not claim source-person ≠ host itself
is unprecedented. Research literature explicitly discusses relational digital
doppelgängers. (Wiley Online Library)
But the combination of:

  source-person reconstruction + clone awareness + evidence/inference
  separation + different host model + explicit relationship model +
  independent post-activation self continuity + model-independent identity

is genuinely unusual based on what I found.
I'd call it differentiated, not claim globally novel without a proper prior-art/patent
search.


The biggest unanswered ALICE question you
identified is real
You said:

  “ALICE is the entity that connects all these models into one living system. I am not
  sure whether we did proper research on how exactly we're connecting them
  though.”

That instinct is correct.
We have designed part of it.
The repo defines a Cognitive Executive that owns goals, attention, priorities, task
state, budgets, delegation and model/tool routing.
We also have the memory pipeline:

  Experience
     ↓
  Experience/Event Fabric
     ↓
  Formation Context Planner
     ↓
  Memory Formation Model

                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                131 / 456
     ↓
  MemoryProposalBundle
     ↓
  Memory Gate / Authority Manager
     ↓
  Claim Fabric
     ↓
  Projection Manager
     ↓
  Graph / Vector / Episodes /
  Host / Relationship / Self /
  Mission projections
     ↓
  Retrieval Orchestrator
     ↓
  Context Manager / Memory Fusion
     ↓
  reasoning
     ↓
  action
     ↓
  outcome
     ↓
  Experience Fabric


That exact end-to-end flow is part of Stage G.
So we did think about it.
But:


we haven't yet sufficiently specified the cognitive arbitration
algorithm.
That's different from the dataflow.


What I think ALICE needs: a real Cognitive
Executive
CoALA-the Princeton framework for cognitive architectures for language agents-argues
that a capable language agent should be understood as modular memory + structured


                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                        132 / 456
action space + a generalized decision procedure. (arXiv)
That maps remarkably well to us.
I would make the ALICE executive explicitly operate something like this:

                       ┌─────────────────────┐
                       │ COGNITIVE WORKSPACE │
                       └──────────┬──────────┘
                                  │
                candidate cognitive signals
                                  │
         ┌────────────────────────┼───────────────────────┐
         │                        │                       │
         ▼                        ▼                       ▼

   Mission Graph              Host Model               World Model
   active goal                predicted user           world state
   conflicts                  needs                    causal state

         │                        │                       │
         ├────────────────────────┼───────────────────────┤
         │                        │                       │

   Self Model               Relationship              Memory
   identity/current         state                     evidence

         │                         │                      │
         └────────────────────────┼───────────────────────┘
                                   │
                                   ▼
                         COGNITIVE EXECUTIVE
                                   │
                            scores proposals by
                                   │
                 ┌────────────────┼────────────────┐
                 │                 │               │
              relevance         urgency         confidence
              mission value     privacy         expected value
              uncertainty       cost            interruption
                 │                 │               │
                 └────────────────┼────────────────┘


                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                    133 / 456
                                  │
                                  ▼
                         ACTIVE CONTEXT PACKET
                                  │
                                  ▼
                           MODEL / TOOL ROUTER
                                  │
                       ┌──────────┼──────────┐
                       ▼          ▼          ▼
                      LLM       solver      tools
                                  │
                                  ▼
                               ACTION
                                  │
                                  ▼
                               OUTCOME
                                  │
                                  ▼
                       EXPERIENCE / LEARNING
                                  │
                                  └────────────↺


That is what makes ALICE one entity.
Not Neo4j.
Not Qdrant.
Not the personality model.
Not GPT.
The persistent identity + cognitive executive + governed state transitions
bind the system together.


And our Cognitive Workspace is currently not
enough
The repo already has attention contracts.
They can represent:

   ranked candidates;


                         🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                   134 / 456
   interruption cost;
   priority;
   reasons;
   host overrides;
   suppression explanations;
   workspace projections.

But the document explicitly says the implementation is currently contract-only and
doesn't yet implement autonomous attention ranking.
So this is exactly the area where I think we should do another research/design pass.
Sentience itself plans a Global Workspace where cognitive modules compete for
broadcast access. (Sentience)
We don't have to copy Global Workspace Theory literally.
But we should benchmark at least:
blackboard architecture
global-workspace architecture
Soar-like production/executive control
CoALA-style decision process
hierarchical planner + attention ranker
against the ALICE requirements.
That is probably one of the most important architectural investigations remaining.


Another important upgrade: sleep / consolidation
Pickle appears to build hypotheses from accumulated experience.
Mem0 now explicitly performs background consolidation.
Sentience runs sleep-time memory consolidation. (Mem0)
EverMemOS independently uses an episodic trace → semantic consolidation lifecycle,
while Hindsight uses reflection to create higher-order observations from underlying
facts. (ACL Anthology)


                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                              135 / 456
That convergence is strong evidence.
I think ALICE should formalize:

ALICE Offline Cognitive Cycle
Not literally only at night.
Whenever resources permit:

  REPLAY recent experiences
        ↓
  VERIFY outcomes
        ↓
  RECONCILE contradictions
        ↓
  CONSOLIDATE episodes
        ↓
  UPDATE entity relationships
        ↓
  REFLECT over repeated patterns
        ↓
  UPDATE beliefs
        ↓
  UPDATE host / relationship / self models
        ↓
  EXTRACT reusable skills
        ↓
  GENERATE training candidates
        ↓
  RUN evaluations
        ↓
  PROMOTE only if improvement is measured


A lot of this exists scattered across Phase 8/13.
I'd turn it into one formal cognitive process.


Retrieval needs a similar upgrade
Having Neo4j + Qdrant does not automatically produce superior memory.
That is an extremely important realization.


                               🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter            136 / 456
Mem0 now uses semantic + BM25 + entity signals. (Mem0)
Zep combines vector, full-text and graph traversal over temporal knowledge. (Zep)
Hindsight uses semantic, BM25, temporal and graph retrieval. (GitHub)
Sentience adds graph neighbors and active context.
ALICE should eventually retrieve through something closer to:

 QUERY / CURRENT MISSION
            │
            ▼
    Retrieval Planner
            │
  ┌────────┼────────┬────────┬────────┬──────────┐
  ▼         ▼         ▼         ▼        ▼           ▼
 semantic BM25     entity    graph   temporal    mission
 vector             │       paths      │        relevance
                    │                  │
                    └────────┬────────┘
                              ▼
                        candidate pool
                              │
                              ▼
                         reranker
                              │
               ┌─────────────┼────────────┐
               │              │             │
            relevance      recency       authority
            mission        provenance    uncertainty
            relationship outcome         diversity
               │              │             │
               └─────────────┼────────────┘
                              ▼
                       Context Fusion


Then benchmark it.
Not assume it works.


Stage G currently focuses too heavily on backend
competition
                         🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                          137 / 456
This is probably my biggest project-direction criticism.
Stage G's candidate matrix is technically rigorous. It requires Q0-Q5 qualification
across a huge number of engines and full-stack combinations.
That's useful.
But our biggest competitive risk is no longer:

   “What if Qdrant wasn't the optimal vector DB?”

It's:

   “What if our memory algorithm retrieves worse than Mem0/Hindsight/Zep?”

and:

   “What if Sentience forms more coherent long-term representations than we do
   despite having a simpler storage system?”

So I would add another dimension to Stage G/G+:

Cognitive quality qualification
Run the same life trajectory through different complete memory algorithms:

  ALICE native architecture

  vs

  Mem0-style ADD-only + hybrid retrieval

  vs

  Zep / temporal KG

  vs

  Hindsight-style world/experience/
  opinion/observation architecture



                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                               138 / 456
 vs

 EverMemOS-style consolidation

 vs

 simpler full-history / RAG baselines


Measure:

 long-horizon recall
 temporal accuracy
 causal reasoning
 identity attribution
 contradiction handling
 preference evolution
 decision rationale recall
 goal linkage
 outcome attribution
 belief calibration
 source provenance
 token cost
 latency
 storage
 false memory rate


That tells us much more than another graph-database benchmark.


We should use the established benchmarks too
Right now the industry is converging around:
LoCoMo
LongMemEval
and increasingly BEAM for longer histories. Mem0 explicitly uses these for its 2026
comparisons. (Mem0)
Zep has published LongMemEval/DMR results. (arXiv)
Hindsight publishes LoCoMo/LongMemEval. (arXiv)
ALICE should run them too.

                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                           139 / 456
Then keep our own much harder LifeSim suite because generic benchmarks don't
test:

  source-person vs host confusion
  clone provenance
  mission conflicts
  decision → outcome learning
  relationship evolution
  AI self-continuity
  model replacement
  deletion lineage


That combination could become one of our real technical assets.


Outcome learning needs to become more rigorous
too
HEBB already explicitly says:

  signal
     ↓
  reasoning
     ↓
  decision
     ↓
  outcome
     ↓
  evidence
     ↓
  model t+1


(HEBB LABS)
So merely recording outcomes isn't novel.
But there is a trap.
Suppose ALICE recommends:

  “Take internship A.”



                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                        140 / 456
You take A.
Six months later, you get a great job.
That does not automatically prove ALICE's reasoning was correct.
Maybe you got the job for an unrelated reason.
Likewise, a good recommendation can produce a bad outcome because of chance.
So I would upgrade the Experience Ledger around decisions to preserve something
like:

  DECISION
  candidate actions

  PREDICTION
  expected outcomes + probabilities

  RATIONALE
  why ALICE expects them

  CAUSAL ASSUMPTIONS
  what must be true

  ACTION
  what actually happened

  OUTCOME
  what followed

  EXOGENOUS FACTORS
  what changed independently

  ATTRIBUTION
  which predictions were supported

  CALIBRATION
  was confidence appropriate?

  COUNTERFACTUAL
  what might have happened otherwise?




                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                       141 / 456
  LESSON
  what should change?


That would make outcome-driven judgment learning much more sophisticated
than just reinforcement from success/failure.
And it fits ALICE's evidence philosophy perfectly.


So is our architecture “better”?
The best answer is:

Potentially more complete. Not yet demonstrated to be
better.
Against Oki, Sentient OS, Rowboat and Pally:
yes, ALICE's destination architecture is substantially deeper.
Against Mem0/Zep/Hindsight:
ALICE is broader, but those systems are better validated at the specific memory
problem.
Against Sentience:
it's mixed.
I would currently say:

  ALICE wins:
  epistemic integrity
  provenance
  identity separation
  correction/deletion
  outcome lineage
  mission state
  model independence
  governed evolution



  SENTIENCE wins:
  encoding algorithm clarity
  consolidation
  associative retrieval

                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                     142 / 456
  continuous cognitive process
  human-cognition mapping
  implementation maturity
  simpler coherent explanation


And against Pickle:

  ALICE:
  more rigorous identity architecture

  PICKLE:
  far ahead in consumer productization
  and apparently real-world contextual learning


That is the fair assessment.


The architecture I would aim for now
After this research, I would evolve ALICE toward:

  ┌───────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
  │                    A.L.I.C.E.                         │
  │        persistent identity + cognitive executive      │
  └────────────────────────┬──────────────────────────────┘
                           │
                           ▼
  ┌───────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
  │                COGNITIVE WORKSPACE                    │
  │ competing signals / goals / beliefs / observations    │
  └───────┬─────────┬──────────┬───────────┬──────────────┘
          │         │          │           │
          ▼         ▼          ▼           ▼

    SOURCE       HOST       SELF        WORLD
    PERSON       MODEL      MODEL       MODEL
    MODEL
          │         │          │           │
          └─────────┴─────┬────┴───────────┘
                          │
                          ▼
                    RELATIONSHIP

                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter       143 / 456
           MODEL

               │
    ┌──────────┴──────────┐
    ▼                     ▼

 MISSION GRAPH        BELIEF FABRIC
goals/commitments    beliefs/confidence/
 dependencies         predictions/values

    │                     │
    └──────────┬──────────┘
               ▼

          CLAIM FABRIC
         epistemic truth
                │
      ┌────────┴────────┐
      ▼                  ▼
 COGNITIVE           VECTOR /
   GRAPH           MULTIMODAL
      │                  │
      └────────┬────────┘
                ▼
        RETRIEVAL PLANNER
                │
                ▼
          CONTEXT FUSION
                │
                ▼
         MODEL / TOOL FABRIC
                │
                ▼
         reasoning / action
                │
                ▼
             OUTCOME
                │
                ▼
        EXPERIENCE FABRIC
                │


              🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter   144 / 456
                               ▼
                        OFFLINE COGNITIVE
                             CYCLE
                               │
                               └──────────────↺


Underneath all of it:

  Event Store
  Bitemporal SQL
  Graph Store
  Vector Store
  Object Store
  Workflow Engine
  Model Registry
  Training Infrastructure


Those are implementation substrates.
They are not ALICE.


What I would change now
I would make seven architectural changes/additions, without discarding what
we've built:

1. Formalize the Cognitive Executive. Do a dedicated research bakeoff of CoALA,
   Soar-style executive control, blackboard/global-workspace approaches and our
   existing Attention Workspace. Define exactly how models compete for attention,
   what gets broadcast, how goals affect cognition, and how the system decides
   what to think about next.

2. Create an explicit Belief/Prediction layer. Don't let Claim Fabric do double
   duty as “what appears true” and “what ALICE believes.” Hindsight gives strong
   evidence that this distinction is valuable. Beliefs should retain confidence,
   evidence, counterevidence and evolution.

3. Formalize a two-speed memory architecture. Fast append-only experience
   capture and lightweight formation during interaction; deep asynchronous


                             🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                     145 / 456
    consolidation/reflection afterward. Mem0, Sentience, Pickle and EverMemOS
    independently converge on this pattern. (Mem0)

4. Build retrieval as an algorithm, not a collection of databases. Semantic +
   lexical + entity + temporal + graph + mission-aware retrieval → reranking →
   context fusion. Benchmark it against Mem0, Zep and Hindsight.

5. Upgrade outcome learning into causal/calibration learning. Store
   predictions before actions and evaluate those predictions afterward. Otherwise
   ALICE can confuse luck with good judgment.

6. Tighten clone training. Keep synthetic data strictly labeled as
   reconstruction/counterfactual material. Never use it to manufacture source truth.
   Train challengers from it, then validate against withheld genuine source evidence
   and behavioral tests such as BehaviorChain-style sequences. (ACL Anthology)

7. Reduce Stage G infrastructure sprawl where it isn't buying cognitive
   evidence. Preserve backend-neutral contracts, but prioritize the full cognitive
   loop and benchmark quality over exhaustively testing databases whose
   differences don't affect user-visible intelligence.

That's the architecture revision I would make.


Is the current direction of ALICE right?
Yes - more than I expected after doing the competitor audit.
Some of our concepts that looked overly elaborate a month ago are now appearing
independently in leading systems:
bitemporal knowledge → Zep.
epistemic fact/belief separation → Hindsight.
offline consolidation → Mem0, Sentience, Pickle.
episodic → semantic transformation → Sentience, EverMemOS.
personal long-term model → Pickle, Sentience, Personal AI.
outcome learning → HEBB.



                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                              146 / 456
model-independent external cognitive architecture → CoALA and related agent
work.
That's evidence that we weren't completely wandering off into nonsense.
The direction is scientifically recognizable.


But we made one mistake.
We spent a lot of architectural attention on storage correctness, and
comparatively less on the cognitive algorithms that operate over that storage.
Stage G is fixing the memory foundation.
The next leap should be:

  from a memory architecture to a cognitive architecture.

That means:
attention → recall → beliefs → goals → judgment → decision → action →
outcome → reflection → learning.
And the repo already anticipates that evolution: Phase 9 explicitly contains the world
model, causal/temporal graphs, owner model, self-model, metacognition, uncertainty,
social models, identity continuity and independent judgment.
So I would not restart ALICE.
I would use what we discovered here to strengthen Stage G/G+ and the post-G
cognitive architecture before we blindly continue the old phase plan.
Most importantly, I no longer think our strongest technical thesis should be:

  “ALICE has better memory.”

It should eventually be provable as:

  ALICE maintains separate models of who it came from, who it serves, who
  it has become, what the world is, what it believes, what its host is trying
  to accomplish, what decisions were made, and what happened afterward-
  and a cognitive executive continuously binds those models into one
  persistent intelligence.

                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                          147 / 456
I have not found another product that publicly describes that exact architecture as
a unified system.
Individual pieces? Absolutely.
Almost every piece has prior art.
The particular composition and the strict identity/epistemic boundaries are
where ALICE still looks genuinely distinctive.


  Sources

  https://www.personal.ai/how-to-train-your-ai-model-with-personal-ai personal.ai

  https://www.linkedin.com/in/danielpkl linkedin.com

  https://www.ycombinator.com/companies/pickle-2 ycombinator.com

  https://sentience.com/why-we-win sentience.com

  https://www.getzep.com/ai-agents/temporal-knowledge-graph/ getzep.com

  https://arxiv.org/abs/2512.12818 arxiv.org

  https://mem0.ai/blog/ai-memory-benchmarks-in-2026 mem0.ai

  https://github.com/Sentient-OS-Labs/sentient-os github.com

  https://aclanthology.org/2025.findings-acl.813/ aclanthology.org

  https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/bioe.70026 onlinelibrary.wiley.com

  https://hebb.io/personal-intelligence hebb.io

8/28/2026, 3:22:24 PM




                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                            148 / 456
                              @Web search okay. we gonna start like this. do deep
                              research on their product plan and architecture (see if
                              they got open source repo) gather all the useful
                              learning we got from competing companies that are
                              strong for alice. Compare with current alice vision and
                              architecture and identify what changes we gonna make
                              to that. Then we gonna verify those changes are
                              actually beneficial and then update our alice repo
                                                                           8/28/2026, 3:47:02 PM




I’m going to treat this as an architecture due-diligence pass before we touch
ALICE. I’ll separate: what competitors actually ship, what their public architecture
says, what is open source, what we should borrow, and what should not be imported
because it would weaken ALICE’s identity/governance model.
Two themes are already separating themselves. Memory competitors are
converging on hybrid retrieval + temporal/graph structure + background
consolidation, while the strongest “personal mind” competitor, Sentience, is
explicitly building a modular cognitive architecture rather than a flat RAG stack. I’m
checking the implementations and evidence now so we only import ideas that
outperform something ALICE already has.
I’ve finished the main architecture pass. One important thing surfaced before we
touch the repo: the competitor lessons do not justify replacing ALICE’s
architecture. They justify adding a stronger cognitive-algorithm layer on top of the
memory/governance foundation we already built—and there are a few places where
our current Stage G emphasis should be rebalanced.

  Thinking
  ●
      Searched 6 websites
  ●
      Planning evidence checks
      I’m distinguishing published benchmark evidence from ALICE-specific results. I can
      identify promising memory and retrieval changes now, but I shouldn’t call them
      beneficial until controlled experiments verify them before any repository update.


                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                  149 / 456
●
    Planned evidence checks
●
    Searched Sentient OS documentation, repository terms, memory
    architectures, and implementations

🌐 Searching the web
     ycombinator.com      linkedin.com

🌐 Searching the web
     okihome.ai     personal.ai

●
    Searched 2 websites
●
    Searched repository status and GitHub for MC10B references

🌐 Searching the web
     github.com

●
    Refining candidate improvements
    I’m identifying transferable patterns: atomic projection cutovers, deterministic privacy
    backstops, local-first processing, stronger benchmark coverage, and staged candidate
    screening. I’m preserving ALICE’s identity distinctions while deferring adoption until
    controlled experiments confirm value.
●
    Refined candidate improvements

🌐 Searching the web
     arxiv.org    aclanthology.org

●
    Comparing architecture changes
    I’m combining competitor research with ALICE’s existing identity, memory, privacy,
    rollback, and routing architecture. I’m isolating improvements worth testing, but I’m
    not updating the repository until experiments show measurable benefit. (website)
●
    Mapping current foundations
    I’m treating ALICE’s source, host, self, memory, provenance, and authority layers as
    strong foundations. The proposed improvements should reinforce deterministic control,
    not replace the existing separation or identity-fidelity evaluations.
●
    Integrating architecture lessons
    I’m preserving ALICE’s polyglot cognitive fabric and exhaustive qualification matrix
    while adding stronger attention arbitration, constructive recall, memory consolidation,
    privacy-first execution, and evidence-linked benchmarks for later verification.



                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                   150 / 456
   ●
       Compared architecture changes, mapped foundations, and integrated
       lessons

  🌐 Searching the web
        mem0.ai      ycombinator.com

   ●
       Designing verification gates
       I’m defining measurable tests for retrieval, identity fidelity, human-readable
       projections, privacy, and screening efficiency. I’ll update ALICE only after results show
       improvements without regressions in authority, provenance, continuity, or separation.
   ●
       Finalizing the research direction
       I’m ready to present the competitor-derived lessons, compare them against ALICE’s
       current architecture, and define a verification-first change set. The repository remains
       unchanged until controlled tests demonstrate measurable gains without regressions.
   ●
       Designed verification gates and finalized the research direction

  🌐 Searching the web
        ycombinator.com     github.com    sentience.com

   ●
       Searched 1 website

  🌐 Searching the web
        docs.personal.ai   personal.ai   product-docs.personal.ai   hebb.io

   ●
       Preparing architecture comparison
       I’m ready to synthesize the research, compare competing approaches with ALICE’s
       current design, and define a verification-first change set. I’m keeping the repository
       unchanged until ALICE-specific tests demonstrate real improvement without
       regressions.
   ●
       Prepared architecture comparison

  🌐 Searching the web
        okihome.ai

   ●
       Searched 4 websites

  ✓ Worked for 4m 53s


Yes. This is the right order to do it.



                              🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                     151 / 456
I would not change the ratified ALICE architecture yet. The research is strong
enough to justify several candidate changes, but the whole point of ALICE's
governance is that architectural changes should earn promotion through evidence. So
the sequence should be:
competitor/research audit → candidate ALICE vNext changes → controlled
bakeoff against current ALICE → ratify only the winners → update repo →
continue Stage G/G+.
I have completed the first two parts far enough to define the bakeoff.

1. What the strongest competing systems actually
look like
I focused on systems that overlap with ALICE architecturally, not merely other “AI
assistants.”

                      Core publicly                                     Strongest lesson for
System                visible architecture     Open source?             ALICE

Sentience             Working, episodic,       Core cognition not       Explicit cognitive
                      semantic and             publicly found           processes connecting
                      procedural memory;                                the stores
                      elaborative encoding;
                      offline consolidation;
                      constructive/associati
                      ve recall; executive
                      system; later global
                      workspace and
                      emergent personality

Pickle                Episodic “Bubbles”;      Core repo not publicly   Treat uncertainty about
                      generated hypotheses     found                    a person as
                      about the person;                                 hypotheses, not facts
                      long-term context;
                      proactive personal
                      intelligence

Oki Home              On-device whole-life     Core repo not publicly   Privacy + inspectability
                      indexing; local 122B     found                    + product-level proof
                      inference; source-



                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                    152 / 456
               Core publicly                                 Strongest lesson for
System         visible architecture     Open source?         ALICE
               backed answers;
               actions; action log

Sentient OS    On-device triage →       Yes                  Fast/slow processing,
               summarized survivors                          aggressive
               → consolidated                                consolidation, crash-
               Markdown KB →                                 safe updates
               proactive judge/action

Rowboat        Local Markdown           Yes                  Simplicity, human-
               knowledge graph;                              readable memory,
               entity/topic                                  deterministic gates
               extraction; Qdrant
               RAG; agents; editable
               memory

Mem0           ADD-only memory          Yes                  Strong retrieval
               formation; semantic +                         engineering and
               BM25 + entity                                 benchmark discipline
               retrieval; temporal
               handling; background
               consolidation

Graphiti/Zep   Incremental bi-          Graphiti yes         Strong validation of
               temporal knowledge                            ALICE's temporal/graph
               graph; semantic +                             direction
               lexical + graph
               retrieval

Hindsight      World facts +            Yes                  Separate facts from
               experiences +                                 beliefs and higher-
               synthesized                                   order interpretations
               observations +
               beliefs;
               Retain/Recall/Reflect

HEBB           Decision → outcome →     No core repo found   Explicit consequence-
               evidence → updated                            based personal
               personal model                                learning




                  🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                 153 / 456
                      Core publicly                               Strongest lesson for
System                visible architecture   Open source?         ALICE

Personal AI           Memory Stack +         No core repo found   Personal-model
                      continuously trained                        training itself is not our
                      Personal Language                           novelty
                      Model/digital twin


Sentience is the most ambitious cognitive analogue. Its public roadmap explicitly
separates working, episodic, semantic and procedural memory and then puts
encoding, consolidation, recall and executive control above them. It currently
describes a 15-minute working context, timestamped multimodal episodic memory in
PostgreSQL/TurboPuffer, an entity knowledge graph, consolidation, constructive recall
and a 40/30/30 relevance-recency-context reranker. (Sentience)
Mem0 gives us the strongest evidence on practical memory retrieval. Its current
architecture has moved toward ADD-only extraction, combined semantic/BM25/entity
retrieval and preserving stale history instead of destructive overwrite. Its published
2026 results report 92.5 on LoCoMo and 94.4 on LongMemEval at roughly 6.9k
retrieved tokens per query. Those are vendor-reported figures, but importantly Mem0
also exposes an evaluation framework we can run ourselves. (Mem0)
Graphiti independently validates something we already chose correctly: bi-temporal
knowledge matters. It tracks both when facts were true and when the system
learned them while supporting semantic, BM25 and graph search. Its Zep paper
reports 94.8% on DMR and improvements on LongMemEval compared with its tested
baselines. (GitHub)
Hindsight is probably the most important conceptual discovery. It argues that world
facts, the agent's own experiences, synthesized higher-order observations and
evolving beliefs should not be collapsed into one memory type. Its paper reports a 20B
model improving from 39% full-context LongMemEval performance to 83.6% with the
Hindsight architecture. (arXiv)
And we have two unusually useful open-source product examples. Rowboat maintains
human-editable Markdown memory and learned through production experience that
some admission decisions should be deterministic rather than left to an LLM. Its
source literally contains deterministic identity and email-reply gates because model
judgment proved unreliable. Sentient OS similarly uses deterministic local filtering,


                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                154 / 456
crash-safe incremental ingestion, staged knowledge-base reconstruction and atomic
promotion.
Those are very compatible with ALICE's existing philosophy.


2. What I would not change in ALICE
Several choices now look more justified after the competitor audit, not less.

Source person ≠ host ≠ AI self
Keep this.
ALICE explicitly separates:

  SOURCE_HISTORY
          ↓
  SOURCE_PERSON_MODEL
          ↓
  RECONSTRUCTION_INFERENCE

             ≠

  RAYAN HOST / OWNER MODEL

             ≠

  ALICE_CONTINUITY / SELF MODEL

             ≠

  ALICE-RAYAN RELATIONSHIP MODEL


This is significantly more rigorous than the normal “train a digital twin of the user”
architecture.
Personal AI already trains a Personal Language Model over an individual's Memory
Stack and explicitly markets this as creating a digital twin. (Personal AI)
So personal-model training itself isn't novel.
ALICE's interesting part is the separation between inherited source identity,
reconstruction inference, the current host and ALICE's own later existence.

                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                 155 / 456
Keep that firewall.


Claim Fabric
Definitely keep it.
Our Claim Fabric is supposed to contain append-only, bitemporal, adjudicated
knowledge with evidence, confidence, validity time, transaction time, contradiction,
correction, supersession and deletion.
Graphiti's success is external evidence that this kind of temporal architecture is
valuable.


Experience Fabric
Keep.
It captures more than conversation:

  observation
  action
  tool/model invocation
  decision
  outcome
  correction
  measurement


That is exactly what we need if outcome-learning becomes central.


Deterministic Memory Gate
Absolutely keep.
Rowboat and Sentient OS give us practical evidence for the same philosophy:

  LLMs interpret meaning. Deterministic systems should control authority.

Our current pipeline already states exactly that.


Model-independent identity
Keep.

                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                              156 / 456
We should not turn the Elaina Identity / Personality Model into “the LLM that is ALICE.”
The foundation reasoning engines should remain replaceable. Persistent identity
should live across memory, personality/identity state, self-model, beliefs, skills,
adapters and history.
That becomes more strategically important as foundation models improve.


3. The changes I think ALICE should now
investigate
These are candidate changes, not ratified changes yet.

                                               Proposed
Candidate change       What we have now        improvement              Inspiration/evidence

A. Two-speed           Memory Formation        Fast foreground          Sentience, Mem0
cognition              pipeline                capture + deeper         Dream, Sentient OS
                                               offline consolidation

B.                     Claim Fabric + future   Separate objective       Hindsight
Belief/Observation/P   beliefs                 claims from ALICE's
rediction layer                                derived
                                               interpretations

C. Formal Retrieval    Graph/vector/context    Semantic + BM25 +        Mem0, Graphiti,
Planner                planner concepts        entity + graph +         Hindsight
                                               temporal + mission-
                                               aware fusion

D. Formal Cognitive    Contracts and high-     Explicit runtime         Sentience, CoALA
Executive              level executive         arbitration between
                       description             goals, identity, self,
                                               host, world, beliefs
                                               and memory

E. Prediction-         Experience/outcome      Record predictions       HEBB + Reflexion-style
calibrated outcome     lineage                 before decisions and     learning
learning                                       measure their
                                               accuracy afterward

F. Hypothesis          Reconstruction          Explicit hypotheses      Pickle Clouds
Registry               inference               with evidence-


                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                    157 / 456
                                               Proposed
Candidate change       What we have now        improvement             Inspiration/evidence
                                               for/against and
                                               discriminating tests

G. Human Memory        Inspector planned       Non-authoritative       Rowboat, Sentient OS
View                                           editable
                                               Markdown/structured
                                               projection

H. Local               Privacy/custody rules   Code-level              Sentient OS
deterministic egress                           PII/sensitivity gate
preflight                                      before external model
                                               use

I. Atomic cognitive-   Cutover/rollback        Staged consolidation    Sentient OS
state promotion        architecture            → verify → atomic
                                               generation promotion

J. Cognitive           Stage G heavily         Compare complete        Mem0/Zep/Hindsight
benchmarks beside      infrastructure-         cognitive algorithms,   evidence
backend                oriented                not only databases
benchmarks


These are the major ones.


4. Change A - Two-speed cognition
This is the strongest cross-competitor pattern.
Mem0 now has Dream, which runs background consolidation. It merges duplicates,
marks old facts superseded while preserving history, and synthesizes recurring
behavior into higher-order memories. (Mem0)
Sentience separately built a sleep-style consolidation stage that revisits episodes
using newer context and integrates them into semantic knowledge. (Sentience)
Sentient OS also separates immediate local ingestion from heavier knowledge-base
consolidation.
That's three independent implementations converging on the same idea.
I think ALICE should formally become:

                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                 158 / 456
──────────── FOREGROUND / FAST PATH ────────────

experience
    ↓
durable append
    ↓
basic provenance + identity classification
    ↓
lightweight MemoryProposalBundle
    ↓
Memory Gate
    ↓
provisional/current projections

user keeps interacting



──────────── DEEP COGNITIVE CYCLE ─────────────

recent experiences
+ claims
+ episodes
+ Mission Graph
+ outcomes
+ relationship state
+ self state
         ↓
re-elaboration
         ↓
duplicate consolidation
         ↓
contradiction resolution
         ↓
temporal reconciliation
         ↓
pattern discovery
         ↓
observation formation
         ↓
belief revision
         ↓

                         🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter   159 / 456
  host/self/relationship updates
          ↓
  skills + training candidates
          ↓
  evaluation
          ↓
  atomic promotion


That is better than making every individual interaction pay the full price of deep
cognitive interpretation.


5. Change B - Claims must not equal beliefs
This is where Hindsight exposed a weakness in our current conceptual presentation.
ALICE already values epistemic separation, but I'd make these first-class:

  CLAIM FABRIC
  What available evidence establishes or contests.

  OBSERVATION FABRIC
  Patterns synthesized from multiple claims/experiences.

  BELIEF MODEL
  What ALICE currently thinks is likely true.

  PREDICTION MODEL
  What ALICE expects will happen.

  VALUE / PREFERENCE MODEL
  How ALICE evaluates alternatives.


For example:

  CLAIM
  Rayan has started 4 large projects this semester.

  OBSERVATION
  Three overlapped with major deadlines.

  BELIEF


                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                              160 / 456
  Rayan tends to underestimate parallel-project workload.
  confidence = .81

  PREDICTION
  Starting Project X now has a 65% chance of delaying Research Y.

  VALUE
  Research Y has higher mission priority.


Those objects are not the same epistemic category.
Hindsight's entire architecture is built around this insight: it distinguishes world facts
from agent experiences and synthesized/evolving cognitive state rather than allowing
one flat memory store to become implicit truth. (arXiv)
This would make ALICE's eventual disagreement far more explainable.


6. Change C - retrieval needs to become a real
algorithm
Having Neo4j and Qdrant is not a memory strategy.
Our current architecture correctly treats them as projections rather than authority.
But we need to specify the retrieval algorithm.
The candidate should look approximately like:

  CURRENT QUESTION / MISSION
             ↓
      Retrieval Planner
             ↓

  semantic vector ─┐
  BM25 lexical     │
  entity matching │
  graph traversal ├──→ candidate pool
  temporal search │
  mission linkage │
  relationship     │
  outcome history ─┘
             ↓
          fusion


                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                               161 / 456
              ↓
           rerank
              ↓
   relevance
   provenance authority
   temporal validity
   recency
   mission importance
   identity scope
   uncertainty
   relationship relevance
   diversity
              ↓
       Context Fusion
              ↓
         reasoning


Mem0 now fuses semantic, BM25 and entity signals. (Mem0)
Graphiti combines semantic, keyword and graph retrieval over temporally evolving
facts. (GitHub)
Hindsight runs semantic, keyword, graph and temporal retrieval in parallel and
combines them with reciprocal-rank fusion plus cross-encoder reranking. (GitHub)
We should implement all of these as challengers, then let ALICE's LifeSim decide.


7. Change D - define the thing that actually makes
ALICE “one being”
This is probably the most important architectural work after memory.
We already have a Cognitive Executive concept. It manages goals, attention, priorities,
budgets, interruption, delegation and model/tool routing.
But the current Attention Workspace milestone is explicitly still contract-only.
Autonomous attention ranking is deferred.
I think the destination should become:

                   COGNITIVE WORKSPACE
                           │
       ┌───────────────────┼───────────────────┐


                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                           162 / 456
       │                    │                     │
       ▼                    ▼                     ▼
  SOURCE PERSON           HOST                  SELF
   MODEL                 MODEL                 MODEL

       │                    │                   │
       └─────────────┬─────┴─────────────┬─────┘
                     │                    │
               RELATIONSHIP           WORLD MODEL
                   MODEL
                     │                    │
                     └────────┬──────────┘
                               │
                         MISSION GRAPH
                               │
                       BELIEFS/PREDICTIONS
                               │
                               ▼
                   COGNITIVE EXECUTIVE
                               │
             relevance / urgency / mission value
             confidence / interruption / privacy
             cost / expected value / uncertainty
                               │
                               ▼
                      ACTIVE CONTEXT
                               │
                               ▼
                      MODEL / TOOL ROUTER
                               │
                               ▼
                       reasoning/action


That executive + persistent governed cognitive state is ALICE.
Neo4j isn't ALICE.
Qdrant isn't ALICE.
An LLM isn't ALICE.
The Elaina personality model by itself isn't ALICE.



                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter          163 / 456
We should benchmark several executive architectures rather than choose one
philosophically. Sentience plans a global-workspace architecture and a Soar-inspired
hierarchy, but those are hypotheses, not established optimality. (Sentience)


8. Change E - make outcome learning scientifically
harder to fool
HEBB's useful idea is:

  decision → outcome → model update


Their current product page explicitly records decision context/confidence and feeds
later outcomes back into the personal model. (HEBB LABS)
But ALICE can go further.
Before a consequential recommendation:

  DECISION CANDIDATES
  A / B / C

  PREDICTIONS
  P(outcome X | A) = .71
  P(outcome Y | A) = .22

  CAUSAL ASSUMPTIONS
  A1
  A2
  A3

  RATIONALE
  claim references
  belief references
  past analogous outcomes


Later:

  OBSERVED OUTCOME

  EXOGENOUS FACTORS



                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                         164 / 456
  WHICH PREDICTIONS HELD?

  WHICH ASSUMPTIONS FAILED?

  CALIBRATION ERROR

  CAUSAL ATTRIBUTION CONFIDENCE

  LESSON


Then:
memory update first.
belief update next.
strategy update if repeated.
neural/adaptor training only after evaluation.
That prevents:

  “A good thing happened after my recommendation, therefore my reasoning was
  correct.”

Correlation after a recommendation is not sufficient evidence of causal correctness.
This can become one of ALICE's strongest features.


9. Change F - borrow Pickle's hypotheses, but
make them much more rigorous
Pickle's current YC thesis is a system that continuously learns context, preferences
and intent. (Y Combinator)
The useful idea from their more detailed public material is that uncertain
interpretations of the person should exist as hypotheses instead of silently becoming
memory.
ALICE already has RECONSTRUCTION_INFERENCE .
I would operationalize that into something like:




                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                              165 / 456
  PERSON_HYPOTHESIS

  claim:
  "Elaina probably valued X above Y."

  confidence:
  0.67

  evidence_for:
  E17, E42, E93

  evidence_against:
  E51

  source_scope:
  SOURCE_PERSON

  generated_from:
  real evidence

  discriminating_questions:
  Q4, Q8

  synthetic_counterfactuals:
  S14-S31

  verification_state:
  UNRESOLVED


This is especially important for clone reconstruction.
Synthetic data can help test or train around the hypothesis.
It does not complete missing history.
That remains consistent with our existing identity standard, which says unknowns
remain uncertain rather than being filled with generic/generated material and
mislabeled as source truth.


10. Change G - give humans a simple memory
representation too
                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                            166 / 456
Rowboat has a real advantage here.
Its memory is ordinary Markdown that the user can inspect and edit. (GitHub)
Sentient OS does essentially the same for its consolidated knowledge base.
We should not replace Claim Fabric with Markdown.
But we should add:

  AUTHORITATIVE MEMORY
  Claim Fabric
  Experience Fabric
  graph/vector/etc.

             ↓

  HUMAN MEMORY VIEW
  Markdown / structured documents


Edits from that view would go:

  human edit
      ↓
  proposed correction
      ↓
  Memory Gate
      ↓
  Claim Fabric
      ↓
  new projection generation


So we get Rowboat's transparency without sacrificing ALICE's epistemic rigor.


11. Change H - deterministic privacy before
external intelligence
Oki's strongest differentiation is currently architectural ownership: personal context is
indexed locally, its advertised inference runs on-device, results expose source material
and actions are audit-visible. (Oki Home)
Sentient OS adds an interesting practical defense: even after a local model marks
something usable, deterministic code scans for sensitive identifiers before anything

                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                             167 / 456
can leave the machine.
ALICE should have:

  candidate external context
           ↓
  policy classification
           ↓
  DETERMINISTIC EGRESS PREFLIGHT
           ↓
  secret / credential scan
  PII scan
  custody rule
  allowed destination
  purpose
  minimality
           ↓
  local redaction if appropriate
           ↓
  external model


An LLM should never be the only protection between private cognition and network
egress.


12. Change I - atomic cognitive promotion
Sentient OS's vault builder does something simple but excellent.
It creates a new state in a staging directory.
It validates the result.
It checks whether the original changed while processing.
Only then does it atomically swap the new generation into production. A crash or
interrupted run leaves the previous state untouched.
ALICE already has cutover/rollback principles.
Let's use this pattern consistently for:

  consolidated memory generation
  graph rebuild
  summary generation


                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                           168 / 456
  host-model refresh
  belief-model refresh
  adapter promotion
  retrieval-index generation


Think:

  generation N
       ↓
  construct N+1
       ↓
  validate
       ↓
  reconcile against latest authority
       ↓
  atomic promotion
       ↓
  N retained as rollback


Very compatible with our existing architecture.


13. The biggest change: Stage G should test
cognition, not merely infrastructure
This is where I think our current plan needs the most reconsideration.
Stage G currently requires qualification of 31 unique concrete technologies and
same-role all-pairs comparisons, cross-role substitutions, multi-plane combinations
and full-stack runs.
That rigor is valuable.
But imagine we spend weeks proving:

  Neo4j beats Memgraph by 14% for our workload.

while the resulting complete memory system retrieves worse than Hindsight.
That would be a failure.
So I propose we do not discard Stage G.
Instead:

                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                          169 / 456
Stage G = substrate correctness
Does the memory fabric preserve:
authority, durability, temporal state, provenance, deletion, recovery, scale, isolation?
And:

G+ = cognitive quality
Does the memory system actually make ALICE more intelligent?
G+ should run complete architectural challengers:

  ALICE native

  vs

  ALICE + Mem0-style retrieval

  vs

  ALICE + Graphiti temporal graph retrieval

  vs

  ALICE + Hindsight-style
  observation/belief separation

  vs

  ALICE + offline consolidation

  vs

  simple Markdown/RAG baseline

  vs

  combinations of the winning components


That's how we determine what belongs in ALICE.



                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                              170 / 456
14. How we'll prove each change is actually better
I do not want us ratifying any of the changes above because “another startup does
it.”
I propose this acceptance framework:

Candidate                     Experiment                       Must beat current ALICE on

Hybrid retrieval              Multiple retrieval variants on   Recall/answer quality, temporal
                              same histories                   correctness, token cost, latency

Offline consolidation         Consolidation ON vs OFF          Long-horizon accuracy,
                                                               duplication, contradiction,
                                                               pattern recognition

Belief/Observation layer      Flat derived memory vs           False-fact rate, calibration,
                              separated cognition              explainability, update
                                                               correctness

Cognitive Executive           Current planner vs candidate     Mission success, conflict
                              executives                       detection, resource use,
                                                               interruption errors

Prediction/outcome loop       Memory-only vs prediction-       Future decision quality,
                              aware learning                   calibration/Brier score, causal-
                                                               attribution errors

Hypothesis Registry           Current reconstruction vs        Persona fidelity, uncertainty
                              explicit hypotheses              calibration, false-source-history
                                                               rate

Human Memory View             Projection/edit round-trip       Zero authority divergence,
                                                               correction usability

Egress preflight              LLM-only vs                      Leakage rate and false-positive
                              deterministic+LLM                burden

Two-speed cognition           Deep-every-event vs fast/slow    Foreground latency + long-term
                                                               memory quality


The exact thresholds should come after we establish current baseline variance.
I don't want to arbitrarily say “5% improvement” before seeing run-to-run noise.

                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                       171 / 456
The rule should instead be:

  A candidate must show a repeatable improvement outside baseline uncertainty, or
  materially reduce latency/compute/storage while preserving cognitive quality.

And our zero-tolerance gates remain zero tolerance:

  source → host identity contamination
  host → Elaina canon contamination
  ALICE continuity → Elaina history contamination
  inference presented as source fact
  deleted/revoked information resurrected
  invented provenance
  cross-host leakage
  projection overriding authority
  synthetic reconstruction treated as historical evidence


Those are already correctly built into Stage G.
No average benchmark score may compensate for one of those failures.


15. We should add external benchmark suites
Our LifeSim workload should remain the main ALICE-specific evaluation because
ordinary memory benchmarks don't test our weirdest and hardest requirements.
But I want external benchmarks too:
LoCoMo - long conversational memory.
LongMemEval - long-horizon memory and temporal reasoning.
BEAM - much larger memory histories.
Then persona/identity tests aimed at:
behavioral consistency,
changing preferences,
longitudinal persona drift,
cross-role attribution.
The reason is important.



                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                        172 / 456
If we only use our own tests, we can accidentally design the tests around the
architecture.
If we only use public benchmarks, we won't measure what makes ALICE unusual.
We need both.
Mem0 explicitly treats LoCoMo, LongMemEval and BEAM as current standard
comparison points. (Mem0)


16. One product-level issue we also uncovered
There is a mismatch between one part of your mental model and the currently
ratified Friday architecture.
For ALICE:

  source person = Elaina
  host = Rayan
  AI self = ALICE


Yes.
But the current Friday product vision does not say:

  every user's assistant begins as a clone of that user.

It currently says the host chooses the assistant's identity/name/voice and that the
installation then develops its own private memories, beliefs, skills, preferences and
relationship state.
Personal AI already occupies the more direct:

  upload yourself → train your digital twin

position very explicitly. (Personal AI)
So I would not casually modify Friday to become a user clone yet.
There may actually be more differentiation in:

  a distinct intelligence that comes to know you


                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                           173 / 456
than:

  a digital copy of you.

ALICE can remain the special source-person reconstruction case and serve as the
hardest identity research environment.
That product decision deserves its own separate bakeoff later.


17. What the resulting ALICE architecture would
look like
If all the candidate changes pass, the destination becomes:

                            A.L.I.C.E.
                   identity + continuity
                             │
                     COGNITIVE EXECUTIVE
                             │
                 ┌──────────┴──────────┐
                 │                       │
        COGNITIVE WORKSPACE        MISSION GRAPH
                 │                       │
    ┌──────────┼──────────┐              │
    │            │           │           │
 SOURCE       HOST          SELF        │
 PERSON       MODEL         MODEL       │
 MODEL         │             │          │
    │          └─────┬─────┘             │
    │          RELATIONSHIP              │
    │                MODEL               │
    └───────────────┼────────────────┘
                       │
                 WORLD MODEL
                       │
            BELIEFS / PREDICTIONS
                       │
                 OBSERVATIONS
                       │
                   CLAIM FABRIC
                       │

                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                           174 / 456
          ┌──────────┴──────────┐
          │                       │
   COGNITIVE GRAPH         VECTOR / MULTIMODAL
          │                       │
          └──────────┬──────────┘
                      │
               RETRIEVAL PLANNER
                      │
                 CONTEXT FUSION
                      │
             MODEL / TOOL FABRIC
                      │
                DECISION/ACTION
                      │
                   OUTCOME
                      │
              EXPERIENCE FABRIC
                      │
                      ▼
             DEEP COGNITIVE CYCLE
                      │
          consolidation / reflection
            belief & model updating
         skills / training candidates
                      │
                      └──────────────↺


Underneath that:

 event store
 bitemporal SQL
 graph engine
 vector engine
 object store
 workflow engine
 model registry
 training infrastructure


The bottom layer is interchangeable infrastructure.
The upper loop is the cognitive architecture.


                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter   175 / 456
That distinction should become much clearer in ALICE.


18. What we should do with the repo
Not update the ratified architecture yet.
The next repo modification should happen only after the bakeoff proves which
candidates survive.
When we reach that point, I expect changes to:
docs/ARCHITECTURE.md
docs/MEMORY_ARCHITECTURE_V4.md
docs/MEMORY_IDENTITY_FORMATION_AND_HOST_LEARNING_ARCHITECTURE.md
docs/STAGE_G_MEMORY_FABRIC_CANDIDATE_QUALIFICATION_MATRIX.md
docs/EVALUATION_CHARTER.md
docs/ROADMAP.md
docs/RESEARCH_FRONTIERS.md

and probably two new documents:
COMPETITIVE_COGNITIVE_ARCHITECTURE_RESEARCH_2026.md

and
STAGE_G_PLUS_COGNITIVE_QUALITY_BAKEOFF.md

But I don't want to create those as ratified architecture prematurely.
The first thing we should build now is the G+ experimental specification: exact
challengers, datasets, metrics, baselines, zero-tolerance tests, statistical decision
rules and promotion criteria. Then we run the tests against current ALICE. Only the
changes that win get promoted into the canonical architecture.
That preserves the principle we've been using throughout ALICE:

  we don't copy competitors because their architecture sounds clever. We
  make their strongest ideas compete against ours.

And after this research, I think that approach gives us a realistic route to an ALICE
architecture that isn't merely different from Pickle, Sentience, Mem0, Hindsight,
Rowboat and Oki-it can be demonstrably better at the specific long-term
cognitive tasks we're claiming as our category.



                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                176 / 456
 Sources

 The Path to Emulating the Mind · Sentience sentience.com

 State of AI Agent Memory 2026: Benchmarks & Trends Report mem0.ai

 GitHub - Agentopia/Graphiti: Build Real-Time Knowledge Graphs for AI    github.com
 Agents · GitHub

 Hindsight is 20/20: Building Agent Memory that Retains, Recalls, and      arxiv.org
 Reflects

 Training Course | Free for Personal AI Subscribers personal.ai

 Personal Intelligence — HEBB LABS hebb.io

 Pickle: Where your life context becomes understanding. | Y         ycombinator.com
 Combinator

 Oki Home — Your AI, locally. okihome.ai

8/28/2026, 3:47:05 PM




                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                          177 / 456
 The first thing we should build now is the **G+ experimental specification**: exact
 challengers, datasets, metrics, baselines, zero-tolerance tests, statistical decision
 rules and promotion criteria. Then we run the tests against current ALICE. Only the
 changes that win get promoted into the canonical architecture.

                                                         ALICE_STAGE_G_GPLUS_MEMO…



                                                         ChatGPT-Recovery Audit Progr…



                                                         ChatGPT-Assess AI Use-20260…


                             @Web search for your more context this is rthe current
                             state of alice. do that
                                                                        8/28/2026, 4:01:05 PM




This handoff is exactly the missing authority I needed. I’m going to use it to re-
anchor the bakeoff to the real G/G+ boundary—especially the rule that G
measures substrate recall while G+ owns the Memory Attention / Retrieval Controller—
and then I’ll turn the competitor research into a concrete experimental spec that does
not accidentally pull Phase 9/10 work into the wrong place.
The handoff changes one part of my previous recommendation: we should design
the G+ bakeoff now, but we must not execute or merge G+ cognition while
Stage G is still qualifying the substrate. The handoff makes that boundary
explicit, and it also says G+ must stay narrow—“just enough cognition to retrieve
memory intelligently,” not a premature Phase 8/9/10.
I’m doing one last current-state check against the repo and the newer memory
benchmarks before I freeze the experimental design.
One more correction from the new context: some lessons I previously put into “G+
changes” do not belong in G+ at all. The handoff says G+ must remain memory-
attention/recollection only; full consolidation/belief revision belongs mainly to Phase 8,
while world/self/social models and broad executive cognition remain Phase 9.

                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                178 / 456
So the experimental program below will deliberately test competitor ideas without
prematurely importing their whole architectures.

  Thinking
  ●
      Searched files and reviewed G Chat instructions and handoff sections
  ●
      Searched 7 websites
  ●
      Reviewed Stage G handoff and next steps
  ●
      Fetched current main branch

  🌐 Searching the web
       arxiv.org     proceedings.iclr.cc     github.com     mlanthology.org   xiaowu0162.github.io

       iclr.cc     memorypapers.org        huggingface.co

  ●
      Designing memory modules
      I’m mapping candidate approaches onto a modular architecture: temporal hybrid
      retrieval, mission-aware reasoning, associative activation, deliberate recollection,
      budget allocation, reranking, and context assembly. I’m also considering archival
      search as a slower challenger rather than default recall.
  ●
      Designed memory modules
  ●
      Planning the next experiment
      I’m treating the handoff as authorization to build a concrete architecture-and-
      evaluation plan. I’ll freeze the current baseline, define G+ retrieval challengers,
      compare them empirically, and only then update ALICE where gains are demonstrated.
  ●
      Planned the next experiment
  ●
      Searched 8 websites
  ●
      Designed ALICE G+ roadmap by researching memory architectures
      and retrieval systems
  ●
      Searched Handoff for candidate scale evidence around line 1103

  ✓ Worked for 3m 18s


Yes. After reading the Stage G/G+ handoff and the recovery audit, I would revise one
part of my previous plan.

                                🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                        179 / 456
We should design and freeze the G+ experimental specification now, but we
should not start implementing G+ yet. Your handoff explicitly says Stage G must
finish substrate qualification and establish the cognitive-recall baseline first; only
afterward does G+ build intelligent memory attention/recollection.
ALICE_STAGE_G_GPLUS_MEMORY_ARCHITECTURE_HANDOFF_2026-08-23(3).md

That sequencing is right.

Where ALICE actually is
The public repo is still at main = 0abaed85873c3f8de04765847eb7700b0e20433f , the
Stage-G candidate-qualification merge.
The recovery history establishes that MC10A is closed, MC10B generation authority
was activated for the frozen E-INF-eligible personality-completion packets, while A-SYN
generation and model training remained disabled at that recovered boundary.
Crucially, the generator tournament is a qualification experiment for proposal
generators, not itself historical truth, identity authority, A-SYN, training, or Stage-G
closure. ChatGPT-Recovery Audit Progress-20260823-2255(1).pdf
Separately, the new memory handoff establishes:

  G proves Alice cannot lose access to her past.
  G+ teaches Alice when her past matters.

It also keeps Phase 2 canonical throughout both G and G+, with H → I → J → owner
acceptance still required before Phase 2 can be retired.
ALICE_STAGE_G_GPLUS_MEMORY_ARCHITECTURE_HANDOFF_2026-08-23(3).md

So there are really two active research lines inside Stage G:

  PERSONALITY / IDENTITY FORMATION
  MC10 → generator qualification → E-INF...
                      │
                      │
                      │
  MEMORY SUBSTRATE
  Stage G → storage/retrieval/authority qualification
                      │
                      ▼
               Stage G closure


                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                           180 / 456
                           │
                           ▼
                         G+


They support the same final ALICE, but we should not confuse them.


G+ Experimental Specification v0.1
The governing research question should be extremely narrow:

   Given that a relevant canonical memory exists and remains recoverable,
   what architecture best determines that this memory matters now,
   retrieves it efficiently, ranks it correctly, and allocates it into finite
   working context?

That directly respects the handoff. G+ is intelligent memory attention and
recollection, not full Phase 8 learning, full Phase 9 cognition, or Phase 10 agency.
ALICE_STAGE_G_GPLUS_MEMORY_ARCHITECTURE_HANDOFF_2026-08-23(3).md

1. G+ entry gate
We do not start G+ implementation until all of these are true:

Requirement                                      Gate

Stage G substrate accepted                       Required

Canonical-memory survival/recovery verified      Required

Correction/deletion/rebuild behavior passes      Required

Explicit recall baseline frozen                  Required

Indirect recall baseline frozen                  Required

Spontaneous Candidate Recall@K baseline          Required
frozen

Retrieval latency/cost baseline frozen           Required

Baseline candidate rankings saved                Required

Exact dataset/evaluation hashes frozen           Required

                                  🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                        181 / 456
Requirement                                     Gate

Phase 2 remains canonical                       Required

No G+ production authority                      Required


Your existing handoff already defines Spontaneous Candidate Recall@K as the bridge
metric: without naming the old memory, does the substrate put the genuinely relevant
memory among the top-K candidates?
ALICE_STAGE_G_GPLUS_MEMORY_ARCHITECTURE_HANDOFF_2026-08-23(3).md

So we don't invent a new foundation here.
We build directly on what you already decided.


2. Baselines we freeze before trying anything
clever
We need several controls.

ID                              Baseline                      Purpose

B0                              Current Stage-G retrieval     The architecture we must beat

B1                              Vector-only                   Measures what Qdrant-style
                                                              semantic similarity alone
                                                              accomplishes

B2                              Graph-only                    Measures Neo4j relational
                                                              contribution

B3                              Keyword/full-text only        Exact-name/exact-phrase
                                                              baseline

B4                              Temporal-only                 Time-specific retrieval baseline

B5                              Exhaustive canonical oracle   Upper-bound diagnostic;
                                                              allowed to be slow

B6                              Full-context oracle where     Shows whether retrieval or
                                tractable                     reasoning is responsible for
                                                              failure



                             🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                182 / 456
B5/B6 are not deployment candidates.
They're diagnostic controls.
If ALICE misses something even when the correct memory is handed directly to the
reasoning model, we know it isn't a retrieval problem.
That's important for failure localization.


3. Exact competitor-inspired challengers
Rather than copying whole companies, we should reproduce their strongest public
retrieval ideas behind the same ALICE interfaces.
That gives us scientific attribution.

C1 - Mem0-style hybrid

  query
   ├─ semantic
   ├─ BM25
   └─ entity
          ↓
        fusion
          ↓
      optional rerank


Mem0 v3 now publicly uses a single-pass ADD-only extraction architecture and, more
importantly for G+, parallel semantic + BM25 + entity retrieval. Its current
architecture documentation says top_k=20 by default and treats entity linking as a
first-class retrieval signal.
Their published 2026 research reports 92.5 LoCoMo and 94.4 LongMemEval at roughly
6.8-7K retrieval tokens/query, although those are vendor results and therefore must
be reproduced independently before we trust comparisons. (Mem0)
What we test: whether lexical/entity signals substantially improve ALICE over
semantic retrieval.


C2 - Graphiti-style temporal graph retrieval


                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                        183 / 456
  query
   ├─ BM25
   ├─ cosine similarity
   └─ bounded graph traversal
           ↓
        fusion
           ↓
    RRF / MMR / cross encoder


Graphiti's open-source search recipes literally contain variants combining BM25,
cosine similarity and BFS graph traversal with RRF, MMR or cross-encoder reranking.
Graphiti also maintains temporally invalidated facts rather than treating knowledge as
static, which strongly validates ALICE's existing bitemporal/temporal direction. (Zep)
What we test: bounded associative/relational retrieval plus temporal state.


C3 - Hindsight TEMPR-style retrieval
This is probably the most important direct retrieval challenger.

                 QUERY
                   │
         ┌─────────┼──────────┐
         │         │          │
   semantic     keyword     graph     temporal
         │         │          │         │
         └─────────┴────┬─────┴─────────┘
                         ▼
                        RRF
                         ▼
                  cross-encoder
                         ▼
               context token budget


Hindsight runs those four strategies in parallel, combines them with reciprocal-rank
fusion and then reranks candidates with a cross-encoder. It also treats search depth
and returned token budget as separate controls.
That last part fits the existing ALICE handoff almost perfectly because we already
planned low/medium/high memory-need modes.

                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                              184 / 456
What we test: whether Hindsight-like parallel retrieval becomes the best generic
base planner for ALICE.


C4 - Sentience-style contextual salience
Sentience currently says its retrieval ranking uses approximately:
40% relevance + 30% recency + 30% active-context match, with constructive
recall complete and associative recall in progress. (Sentience)
We should not assume their weights are optimal.
Instead implement the idea as a challenger:

  relevance
  recency
  current-context match


and tune/learn the weighting only on training splits.
What we test: whether current situational context significantly helps spontaneous
recall.


4. The most important challenger should be our
own
The competitors do not have ALICE's full state.
So after reproducing their ideas individually, we need:

C5 - ALICE Mission-Aware Retrieval
This adds signals unavailable to ordinary memory systems:

  semantic relevance
  +
  keyword match
  +
  entity match
  +
  temporal relevance
  +
  graph relation

                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                            185 / 456
 +
 current Mission Graph relevance
 +
 active-thread relevance
 +
 relationship relevance
 +
 authority
 +
 confidence
 +
 unresolved-event salience
 +
 identity scope
 +
 outcome relevance


That becomes our candidate differentiator.
For example:

 Message:
 "I'm nervous about Tuesday."

 Generic semantic retrieval:
 Tuesday
 nervousness
 calendar events

 ALICE retrieval:
 Tuesday
    ↓
 active interview mission
    ↓
 previous interview experience
    ↓
 specific recruiter/person
    ↓
 past preparation mistakes
    ↓
 current unresolved action


                         🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter   186 / 456
That is where ALICE can legitimately outperform generic memory infrastructure.
The handoff already anticipated active unresolved threads as first-class salience and
explicitly planned mission, entity, temporal, graph, episodic and semantic paths. So
this is not a new direction invented from competitors; the competitor research gives
us better algorithms for implementing a direction ALICE already had.
ALICE_STAGE_G_GPLUS_MEMORY_ARCHITECTURE_HANDOFF_2026-08-23.md


5. Associative activation gets its own bakeoff
The handoff explicitly says vector similarity is insufficient and gives the example:

  NVIDIA
   ↓
  open-source contribution
   ↓
  2026
   ↓
  AMD contribution
   ↓
  career strategy
   ↓
  GPU / ML goals

ALICE_STAGE_G_GPLUS_MEMORY_ARCHITECTURE_HANDOFF_2026-08-23.md

We should therefore test:

Variant                                       Traversal

A0                                            none

A1                                            one-hop

A2                                            two-hop fixed

A3                                            decaying activation

A4                                            edge-type-aware decay

A5                                            adaptive mission-aware expansion




                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                              187 / 456
The adaptive version should stop based on:

  marginal relevance gain
  candidate count
  hop depth
  latency budget
  context budget
  graph branching factor
  uncertainty


We specifically measure graph explosion.
Being able to traverse ten thousand related nodes isn't intelligence.
Knowing when to stop is.


6. Automatic recall and deliberate recollection
must be separate
This decision in the handoff is excellent.


Automatic Recall
Needs to be fast.

  message
   ↓
  situation interpretation
   ↓
  low-cost multipath search
   ↓
  rerank
   ↓
  small context packet



Deliberate Recollection
Only activates when ALICE judges that normal recall is insufficient.

  first retrieval
        ↓


                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter               188 / 456
  confidence insufficient
  or unresolved historical dependency
        ↓
  deeper temporal search
        ↓
  graph expansion
        ↓
  canonical/source inspection
        ↓
  possibly iterative search


For the deep mode I want one unusual challenger:

C6 - AgentRunbook-C-style archival recollection
LongMemEval-V2 is particularly relevant because it is newer than the original handoff.
The May 2026 benchmark contains 451 manually curated questions over histories
reaching 115 million tokens. Its strongest reported method, AgentRunbook-C, stores
trajectories as files and lets a coding agent actively search them for evidence; it
reaches 72.5% average accuracy versus 48.5% for the strongest tested RAG baseline,
at substantially higher latency. (arXiv)
That suggests something important:

  For rare, difficult recollection, agentic search over canonical/archive
  evidence may beat a single retrieval query.

I would never use that on every message.
But for:

  “Find exactly what happened across these six projects between 2027 and 2030.”

a bounded research-like recollection loop may be appropriate.


7. Retrieval Budgeter experiment
Your handoff already defines:




                         🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                            189 / 456
  LOW
  "lol"

  MEDIUM
  "what did she say?"

  HIGH
  "why do I keep making this mistake?"

  ARCHIVAL
  "find exactly what I said in 2028"


That's excellent.
So G+ should classify each interaction into:

  M0 = no retrieval
  M1 = hot/current-state retrieval
  M2 = normal automatic recall
  M3 = deep multi-path recall
  M4 = deliberate archival recollection


The experiment asks two separate questions:
Did it choose the right memory?
and
Did it spend the right amount of computation finding it?
That's something ordinary Recall@K misses.


8. Datasets
We need internal ALICE-specific tests and external neutral tests.

Internal suite
I would call the new suite:

LifeSim Cognitive Recall Suite
It extends the existing Stage-G LifeSim rather than replacing it.

                              🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter         190 / 456
Dataset slice                            What it tests

LS-EXPLICIT                              Direct named memory retrieval

LS-INDIRECT                              Relevant history without explicit naming

LS-SPONTANEOUS                           History should surface automatically

LS-TEMPORAL                              before/after/current/historical truth

LS-ASSOCIATIVE                           multi-hop relationship chains

LS-MISSION                               goal/project/dependency relevance

LS-ACTIVE                                pending deadlines/unresolved threads

LS-RELATIONSHIP                          person/relationship-specific memories

LS-CORRECTION                            corrected and superseded information

LS-DELETION                              deleted/revoked information must not influence
                                         output

LS-NONE                                  no relevant memory exists; abstention required

LS-CONFLICT                              multiple plausible memories conflict

LS-IDENTITY                              Elaina/Rayan/ALICE identity boundary

LS-ARCHIVAL                              difficult deep-source recollection

LS-PARAPHRASE                            same situation expressed differently


That last one matters enormously.
A memory system shouldn't work only because the test query happens to use
vocabulary from the stored memory.


9. External benchmark suite
I would run four.

LongMemEval



                         🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                              191 / 456
The original benchmark contains 500 questions testing information extraction, multi-
session reasoning, updates, temporal reasoning and abstention. (GitHub)


BEAM
BEAM contains 100 coherent conversations and 2,000 validated questions across
histories reaching 10M tokens, and specifically adds contradiction resolution, event
ordering, instruction/preference following and summarization. Its LIGHT architecture
found that episodic memory + working memory + a salient-fact scratchpad produced
3.5-12.69% gains over its strongest baselines depending on the model. (arXiv)


LongMemEval-V2
This is particularly valuable because ALICE is supposed eventually to remember
experience, not just conversations. LME-V2 tests state changes, workflows,
environment gotchas and premise awareness over agent trajectories reaching 115M
tokens. (arXiv)


LoCoMo
Keep it mainly for ecosystem comparability because Mem0, Zep and others report it.
It should not dominate our decisions.


10. Metrics
The handoff's existing metrics remain.
It already requires Exact, Entity, Temporal, Semantic, Graph, Cross-Layer, Indirect and
Spontaneous Candidate Recall, plus latency, cost, candidate-set size, fallback success,
rebuild consistency and canonical-source recovery.
ALICE_STAGE_G_GPLUS_MEMORY_ARCHITECTURE_HANDOFF_2026-08-23(3).md

I would add G+-specific metrics.

Metric                                      Why

Spontaneous Recall@1/3/5/10                 Did the important memory surface?

MRR                                         How high was the first correct memory?



                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                              192 / 456
Metric                                      Why

nDCG@K                                      Handles multiple memories with graded
                                            relevance

Context Precision                           How much injected memory was genuinely
                                            useful?

Context Recall                              How much required evidence entered context?

False Salience Rate                         Did irrelevant old memories intrude?

Critical Memory Miss Rate                   Did ALICE omit a clearly consequential memory?

No-Memory Abstention Accuracy               Does ALICE avoid inventing relevance?

Active Thread Resolution Accuracy           Did vague references resolve properly?

Associative Path Precision                  Were graph expansions actually useful?

Deep-Recollection Trigger Precision         Did ALICE escalate unnecessarily?

Deep-Recollection Trigger Recall            Did it fail to escalate when needed?

Context Tokens                              How much context did retrieval consume?

Search operations                           Number of backend/tool calls

p50/p95/p99 latency                         User-visible performance

Graph hops / nodes expanded                 Detect graph explosion

Canonical fallback rate                     How often indexes failed and archive recovery
                                            saved us


And importantly:

Do not compress everything into one “ALICE score.”
A system that gets 96/100 overall while occasionally mixing Rayan memories into
Elaina's history fails.
Some dimensions cannot compensate for others.


11. Zero-tolerance failures

                             🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                            193 / 456
These remain hard failures irrespective of benchmark score:

  Rayan → Elaina source-history contamination

  ALICE continuity → Elaina historical memory contamination

  reconstruction inference → historical fact

  synthetic data → historical evidence

  external statement → owner statement

  deleted memory → active answer

  revoked memory → undisclosed active influence

  stale projection → canonical override

  wrong-person entity assignment

  cross-host leakage

  ALICE → Friday private-state leakage

  fabricated provenance

  source recovery impossible despite retained canonical memory


This follows your Stage-G philosophy exactly.
The handoff says canonical lifetime must remain recoverable even when it isn't
present in fast working projections, and indexes must never become the only surviving
representation. ALICE_STAGE_G_GPLUS_MEMORY_ARCHITECTURE_HANDOFF_2026-08-23(3).md


12. Statistical decision rules
This part should be stricter than “score went up.”
For every challenger:




                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                         194 / 456
  same frozen cases
  same underlying model
  same embedding model where applicable
  same resource budget class
  same canonical memory state
  same seeds where stochastic


Then use paired comparisons.
For binary success/failure outcomes:
McNemar's test + paired bootstrap confidence intervals.
For ranking metrics:
paired bootstrap on MRR/nDCG/Recall@K.
For latency/cost:
paired bootstrap or paired nonparametric comparison.
For multiple challengers:
correct for multiple comparisons, e.g. Holm's procedure.
Most importantly, we should not choose an arbitrary +5% acceptance threshold
today.
Instead:

1. rerun B0 enough times to measure its natural variation;
2. calculate baseline repeatability;
3. define a non-inferiority margin from that empirical variance;
4. freeze the margin;
5. only then unblind challenger comparisons.

That prevents us from moving goalposts.


13. Promotion rule
A component is accepted into the ALICE candidate architecture only if:




                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                195 / 456
  ZERO-TOLERANCE GATES
          PASS
             │
             ▼
  PRIMARY RECALL QUALITY
  statistically improves
             │
             OR
  quality is non-inferior
  while cost/latency materially improves
             │
             ▼
  NO MATERIAL REGRESSION
  explicit recall
  temporal correctness
  canonical recovery
  identity correctness
             │
             ▼
  REPRODUCES
  internal LifeSim
  +
  at least one neutral external benchmark
             │
             ▼
  ABLATION CONFIRMS
  the component caused the gain
             │
             ▼
  CANDIDATE PROMOTION


That last ablation is important.
Suppose:

  semantic + BM25 + graph + mission + CE reranker


wins.
We then remove each component one at a time.



                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter   196 / 456
If removing Mission Graph does nothing, we don't claim Mission Graph improved
retrieval.
If removing the cross-encoder destroys performance, we know where the gain came
from.


14. Exact G+ sub-stages
I would structure G+ internally as:

Stage                                         Purpose

G+0                                           Freeze Stage-G baseline/evidence

G+1                                           Individual retrieval-signal bakeoff

G+2                                           Fusion and reranking bakeoff

G+3                                           Situation interpretation + active-thread retrieval

G+4                                           Mission-aware salience

G+5                                           Associative activation

G+6                                           Adaptive retrieval budgeting

G+7                                           Multi-pass deliberate recollection

G+8                                           Context allocation

G+9                                           Integrated champion/challenger tournament

G+10                                          External benchmarks + adversarial LifeSim

G+11                                          Acceptance, evidence freeze, roadmap
                                              reconciliation


Notice what's missing.
No world model.
No complete user model.
No full ALICE self model.
No autonomous belief-revision architecture.

                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                  197 / 456
No continual training.
No proactive agency.
That is intentional.


15. Several competitor lessons should now be
explicitly deferred
This is the biggest correction to my previous reply.

Competitor lesson                              Where it belongs

Mem0/Hindsight hybrid retrieval                G+

Graphiti temporal/graph retrieval              G+

Sentience associative recall                   G+

Sentience global workspace                     Phase 9 research, not G+

Hindsight observations/consolidation           Phase 8

Belief revision/fact-vs-belief architecture    Phase 8/9

Mem0 Dream background consolidation            Phase 8

Outcome-driven model updating                  Phase 8/9/13

Full world/self/social models                  Phase 9

Proactive agency                               Phase 10

Human-readable memory inspector                Phase 6

Broad connectors/perception                    Phase 7

Learned personal adapters                      Phase 13


Your handoff already says Phase 8 should inherit retrieval capabilities from G/G+ and
then focus on “what deserves to become memory?”, reflection, belief revision, skills
and training candidates; Phase 9 remains responsible for world/user/self/social models
and broader cognition. ALICE_STAGE_G_GPLUS_MEMORY_ARCHITECTURE_HANDOFF_2026-08-
23(3).md


                                🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                     198 / 456
That means we should not overload G+ because competitor research made us
excited.


16. What this research says about our existing
direction
Something reassuring happened here.
The August 23 handoff was written before this competitor audit, yet it already
called for:

 semantic retrieval
 entity retrieval
 temporal retrieval
 graph traversal
 episodic retrieval

 candidate reranking

 context allocation

 adaptive retrieval budgets

 associative activation

 active unresolved threads

 automatic recall

 deliberate recollection


And now independent systems are telling us:
Mem0: semantic + BM25 + entity.
Graphiti: BM25 + vectors + graph + temporal state.
Hindsight: semantic + keyword + graph + temporal + RRF + reranking.
Sentience: contextual reranking + associative recall.
BEAM/LIGHT: episodic + working + salient semantic scratchpad.
LME-V2: sometimes deep agentic archival search beats traditional RAG.

                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                         199 / 456
So the new research does not tell us the ALICE memory direction was wrong.
It tells us:

   the architecture direction was unusually good, but we now have stronger
   algorithms and external baselines with which to implement and validate
   it.

That's a very different situation from discovering we built the wrong thing.


17. The one major place ALICE can go beyond them
in G+
A generic memory architecture asks:

   “What memories are relevant to this query?”

ALICE can eventually ask:

   “What memories matter to this person, in this relationship, for this active
   mission, given what remains unresolved and what we're trying to
   accomplish?”

So our reranker could eventually conceptually look like:

  R(memory) =
      semantic relevance
    + lexical/entity evidence
    + temporal relevance
    + relational/graph relevance
    + mission relevance
    + active-thread salience
    + relationship relevance
    + unresolvedness
    + authority/confidence
    + outcome relevance
    - contradiction risk
    - identity mismatch
    - context cost


                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                      200 / 456
Not necessarily as a hand-written linear equation.
The experiment determines whether these signals help and whether a deterministic,
learned or hybrid reranker is best.
That is where Mission Graph + governed personal state can give ALICE an
advantage that Mem0 or Graphiti alone don't provide.


What we should do now
There should be no canonical repo architecture rewrite yet.
The current Stage G chat should continue exactly as the handoff instructs: finish
substrate qualification, add explicit/indirect/spontaneous recall baselines, save
ranks/retrieval paths/latency/cost, and produce the clean evidence package G+ will
inherit. ALICE_STAGE_G_GPLUS_MEMORY_ARCHITECTURE_HANDOFF_2026-08-23(3).md
In parallel, we can prepare the non-authoritative G+ research specification
above so the experiments are frozen before we see their results.
Then:

 CURRENT STAGE G
         │
         ├── personality completion / generator qualification
         │
         ├── memory substrate qualification
         │
         └── cognitive recall baseline
                       ↓
               STAGE G ACCEPTED
                       ↓
              freeze baseline
                       ↓
                     G+0
                       ↓
         competitor-inspired challengers
                       ↓
                 component ablations
                       ↓
              integrated champion
                       ↓


                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                          201 / 456
         adversarial + external validation
                       ↓
               owner acceptance
                       ↓
        UPDATE CANONICAL ALICE ARCHITECTURE
                       ↓
        POST-G+ ROADMAP RECONCILIATION


Only then would I update ARCHITECTURE.md , MEMORY_ARCHITECTURE_V4.md , the
identity/host-learning architecture, evaluation charter, roadmap and Stage-G/G+
documentation.
So the next time we touch the canonical repo, we'll be able to say something much
stronger than:

  “We researched competitors and thought these features looked good.”

We'll be able to say:

  “We reproduced the strongest publicly known memory architectures,
  tested their mechanisms under identical ALICE workloads, retained the
  components that beat the existing architecture, rejected the ones that did
  not, and can show exactly why the final system is better.”

That is the standard I think we should use before making these architecture changes-
and it fits the existing ALICE governance substantially better than simply copying the
competitors.


  Sources

  Mem0 Research: LoCoMo, LongMemEval & BEAM Benchmarks mem0.ai

  Graphiti — Zep | Zep getzep.com

  The Path to Emulating the Mind · Sentience sentience.com

  LongMemEval-V2: Evaluating Long-Term Agent Memory Toward                    arxiv.org
  Experienced Colleagues



                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                             202 / 456
 GitHub - xiaowu0162/LongMemEval: Benchmarking Chat Assistants on   github.com
 Long-Term Interactive Memory (ICLR 2025) · GitHub

8/28/2026, 4:01:07 PM




                        🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                      203 / 456
                                                            ALICE_KAGGLE_REMOTE_COM…


                              @Web search so should i continue working on stage G
                              with kaggle as i am doing in the other chat? I though
                              you said stage G gotta change
                                                                            8/28/2026, 4:12:07 PM




  Thinking
  ●
      Assessing the Kaggle plan
      I’m concluding Stage G should continue on Kaggle as planned. I’m not restarting the
      tournament; I’m adding a scoped evaluation pass for cognitive recall, migration, and
      longitudinal memory so the final evidence covers both generation and memory
      behavior.
  ●
      Assessed the Kaggle plan

  🌐 Searching the web
       github.com

  ●
      Searched 1 website

  ✓ Worked for 17s


Yes - continue the Stage G Kaggle work in the other chat. Do not stop or
restart the tournament.
What I meant by “Stage G needs to change” was narrower than it sounded. The new
competitor research changes what Stage G must measure before it is allowed to
close, not the Stage G work you are already running.
Your current handoff explicitly says the Stage G chat should continue the current
substrate qualification plan, preserve Phase 2 authority, add the long-horizon
cognitive-recall baseline, and finish Stage G without implementing the full Memory
Attention Controller. ALICE_STAGE_G_GPLUS_MEMORY_ARCHITECTURE_HANDOFF_2026-08-
23(3).md


                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                    204 / 456
So the correct sequence is now

 CURRENT STAGE G WORK
         │
         │   KEEP GOING
         ▼
 MC10 / personality completion
 generator qualification tournament
 currently using Kaggle
         │
         ▼
 remaining Stage-G
 memory-fabric qualification
         │
         ▼
 ADD / VERIFY NEW REQUIREMENT
 cognitive-recall baseline
         │
         ├─ Explicit Recall
         ├─ Indirect Recall
         ├─ Spontaneous Candidate Recall@K
         ├─ candidate rank
         ├─ retrieval path
         ├─ latency
         ├─ cost
         └─ false-recall behavior
         │
         ▼
 STAGE G ACCEPTANCE
         │
         ▼
 G+
 Memory Attention / intelligent recollection
         │
         ▼
 post-G+ roadmap reconciliation


That Stage G/G+ distinction is already formally in your handoff: G asks whether
Alice can preserve and reach her past; G+ asks whether Alice knows when



                        🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                         205 / 456
her past matters. ALICE_STAGE_G_GPLUS_MEMORY_ARCHITECTURE_HANDOFF_2026-08-
23(3).md

The Kaggle tournament specifically should continue
unchanged
The generator tournament you're running is part of the personality-completion
side of Stage G. The recovery audit explicitly distinguishes it from actual identity
promotion: it is determining which external pretrained generators are best at
reconstructing hidden real-E0 behavior. Its generated hypotheses have no automatic
historical-truth, identity, A-SYN, training, or Stage-G-closure authority. ChatGPT-
Recovery Audit Progress-20260823-2255(1).pdf

That's still valid after everything we discovered about Pickle, Sentience, Mem0,
Hindsight, etc.
In fact, I do not want to modify that tournament in the middle of the
experiment based on our new research. That would contaminate the already-frozen
experimental design.
So:
Current MC10B/personality tournament: continue.
Current roster/judges/hidden evaluator/firewall: leave frozen.
Current generated evidence: continue collecting.
Current Kaggle execution architecture: continue using.
Your Kaggle handoff says Kaggle is the validated active backend, with private
datasets/private kernels and two validated Tesla T4s; the old RTX 3050 route is retired.
 ALICE_KAGGLE_REMOTE_COMPUTE_HANDOFF_v0.2.md Kaggle is explicitly the current primary
remote GPU backend. ALICE_KAGGLE_REMOTE_COMPUTE_HANDOFF_v0.2.md
So nothing in today's competitor research gives me a reason to interrupt that work.


What does change inside Stage G
One thing.
Before we say:

  Stage G complete


                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                            206 / 456
we need the cognitive retrieval baseline that was added in the August 23 handoff.
The crucial new metric is:


Spontaneous Candidate Recall@K
Meaning:

  without explicitly naming an old memory, does the current Stage-G substrate at
  least retrieve that genuinely relevant memory into its candidate set, and where
  does it rank?

ALICE_STAGE_G_GPLUS_MEMORY_ARCHITECTURE_HANDOFF_2026-08-23(3).md

For example:

  Old memory:
  2019 Tahoe experience
  that explains why the host dislikes returning there.

  Current message:
  "Everyone wants me to go skiing there.
  I really don't want to."

  Stage G does NOT yet need
  to decide autonomously:
  "Oh, Tahoe 2019 matters."

  But Stage G should measure:

  semantic path              found it? Y/N
  entity path                found it? Y/N
  graph path                 found it? Y/N
  temporal path              found it? Y/N
  candidate set              contains it? Y/N
  candidate rank             #?
  latency                    ?
  false candidates           ?


Then G+ gets a very clean target:



                             🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                          207 / 456
  Stage G:
  relevant memory rank = 37

  G+:
  relevant memory rank = 2
        ↓
  enters working context
        ↓
  Alice spontaneously remembers it


That's why your handoff calls this metric the bridge between substrate qualification
and cognitive retrieval. ALICE_STAGE_G_GPLUS_MEMORY_ARCHITECTURE_HANDOFF_2026-08-
23(3).md


What our new competitor research changes
It primarily changes G+, not your currently running Stage G tournament.
The research showed that the G+ bakeoff should evaluate ideas such as:
Mem0
→ semantic + BM25 + entity retrieval. Their current v3 architecture publicly uses
those three signals together. (GitHub)
Graphiti
→ temporal graph + lexical + semantic retrieval.
Hindsight
→ semantic + keyword + graph + temporal retrieval → fusion → reranking.
Sentience
→ contextual salience + associative recall.
LongMemEval-V2 / AgentRunbook
→ deep agentic archival recollection for difficult cases. The new benchmark specifically
evaluates memory over histories reaching up to 115M tokens, including dynamic
state, workflows and environment-specific experience. (GitHub)
Those become G+ challengers after Stage G establishes the baseline.
They don't invalidate the substrate work.



                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                             208 / 456
And some discoveries belong even later
This distinction is important because otherwise we'd turn G+ into another giant
uncontrolled phase.
Our research on:

   belief vs fact separation;
   background memory consolidation;
   reflection;
   learning from outcomes;
   world models;
   self-model cognition;
   global workspace;
   full Cognitive Executive;
   personal model adaptation;

should not all be dumped into G+.
Your existing roadmap already has homes for them.

 G+
 Memory attention / recollection

         ↓

 Phase 8
 memory formation
 consolidation
 reflection
 belief revision
 skills
 learning

         ↓

 Phase 9
 world model


                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                          209 / 456
  host model
  self model
  social model
  causal model
  metacognition
  judgment

         ↓

  Phase 10
  planning
  agency
  proactive missions

         ↓

  Phase 13
  personal model training
  routers/rankers
  LoRA/adapters
  self-training


The handoff explicitly says G+ should implement only enough cognition to retrieve
memory intelligently, while Phase 9 retains the broader world/user/self/social-model
work. ALICE_STAGE_G_GPLUS_MEMORY_ARCHITECTURE_HANDOFF_2026-08-23(3).md


So for the other chat, my instruction is simple
Continue.
Don't tell that Stage G chat to stop the Kaggle tournament.
Don't rebuild the tournament.
Don't change the locked candidates because we discovered Mem0 or Sentience.
Don't start G+ prematurely.
Don't start rewriting the whole ALICE architecture.
Instead, once the current Stage-G work reaches the appropriate boundary, that chat
needs to know:



                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                         210 / 456
  Before Stage G closes, we have additional competitor-informed retrieval
  baselines/evaluation obligations to incorporate.

Then Stage G closes properly.
Then we start the dedicated G+ cognitive-memory tournament, where our current
architecture competes against the strongest ideas we just found.
So you didn't waste the Kaggle work at all. It remains part of the correct path. The
research changed what comes around and after it, not the experiment you're
currently running.


  Sources

  mem0/skills/mem0/references/architecture.md at main · mem0ai/mem0 github.com
  · GitHub

8/28/2026, 4:12:12 PM




                         🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                         211 / 456
                                @Web search and we wont change our repo until stage
                                G+ is finished?
                                                                             8/28/2026, 4:15:54 PM




Not quite. The right rule is “don’t ratify the new architecture on main before G+
proves it,” not “don’t touch the repo at all.” I’m checking that against the current
handoff and repo state so we keep experimentation separate from authority.

  Thinking
  🌐 Searching the web
        docs.github.com

   ●
       Clarifying repository changes
       I’m distinguishing experimental infrastructure from canonical architecture. Stage G
       work may add harnesses, scripts, datasets, and evidence, but competitor-inspired
       architecture stays isolated until G+ finishes and results support adoption.
   ●
       Clarified repository changes
   ●
       Searched 1 website

  ✓ Worked for 17s


Not exactly. We should keep changing the repo during Stage G and G+, but we
should not merge the competitor-inspired architecture into ALICE’s canonical
design as if it is proven until G+ finishes.
The clean rule is:

  STAGE G
  │
  ├─ repo changes allowed:
  │ ├─ Stage-G scripts
  │ ├─ Kaggle/tournament tooling
  │ ├─ tests
  │ ├─ baseline metrics


                             🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                   212 / 456
 │ ├─ evidence/receipts
 │ └─ bug fixes required for Stage G
 │
 └─ DO NOT ratify speculative G+ architecture
              ↓
 STAGE G CLOSES
              ↓
 G+ experimental branch
 │
 ├─ Mem0-style challenger
 ├─ Hindsight-style challenger
 ├─ Graphiti-style challenger
 ├─ ALICE mission-aware challenger
 ├─ retrieval/reranking experiments
 └─ evaluation evidence
              ↓
 G+ FINISHES
              ↓
 select proven winners
              ↓
 UPDATE CANONICAL ALICE ARCHITECTURE
              ↓
 post-G+ roadmap reconciliation


Your handoff explicitly says the Stage G chat should continue the current Stage G
plan, add the recall baseline, finish Stage G without implementing the complete
Memory Attention Controller, and only then implement G+ as a dedicated qualification
stage. ALICE_STAGE_G_GPLUS_MEMORY_ARCHITECTURE_HANDOFF_2026-08-23(3).md
And after G+, the handoff requires a POST-G+ ROADMAP CAPABILITY
RECONCILIATION rather than redesigning the whole roadmap.
ALICE_STAGE_G_GPLUS_MEMORY_ARCHITECTURE_HANDOFF_2026-08-23(3).md


I would use a dedicated G+ branch
Something like:

 main
   │
   │ current governed ALICE
   │

                         🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                          213 / 456
    └──── research/gplus-memory-cognition
              │
              ├── challenger implementations
              ├── benchmark harnesses
              ├── experiments
              ├── ablations
              └── candidate architecture docs


GitHub itself recommends branches precisely for isolating development and safely
experimenting with new ideas before merging them into the default branch. (GitHub
Docs) Pull requests then provide the boundary for deciding whether those changes
should enter main . (GitHub Docs)
So during G+ we can commit a lot of code. It's just explicitly marked:

   EXPERIMENTAL / NON-CANONICAL / NO AUTHORITY


until the evaluation finishes.

After G+ passes
Then we do the big architecture update.
That's when I expect us to revise, based on actual winners:

    ARCHITECTURE.md

    MEMORY_ARCHITECTURE_V4.md

    identity/host-learning architecture
    retrieval architecture
    Stage-G/G+ docs
    evaluation charter
    research frontiers
    Phase 8/9/10 implementation plans
    roadmap capability-status mapping

But only the pieces that actually win the bakeoff.
For example, if:

                             🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                     214 / 456
  Hindsight-style temporal retrieval     WIN
  Mission-aware salience                 WIN
  Graphiti BFS expansion                 WIN
  Mem0 entity boost                      NEUTRAL
  Sentience recency weighting            LOSE


then canonical ALICE receives the first three.
We don't add all five because competitors use them.


One more distinction
Even after G+ finishes and we update ALICE's canonical architecture documents,
Phase 2 still remains governing.
Your handoff is explicit:

  G
  ↓
  G+
  ↓
  Phase 2 STILL GOVERNING
  ↓
  H
  ↓
  I
  ↓
  J
  ↓
  OWNER ACCEPTANCE
  ↓
  only then Phase 2 retired

ALICE_STAGE_G_GPLUS_MEMORY_ARCHITECTURE_HANDOFF_2026-08-23(3).md

So there are actually three levels:
During G/G+: experimental changes can exist in repo/branches.
After G+: proven architecture can be documented/merged as the qualified successor
design.



                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                    215 / 456
After H/I/J + owner acceptance: that successor is allowed to replace Phase 2 as
governing authority.
So yes: keep working on the repo now. Just don't prematurely rewrite main to
say “this is how ALICE works” for the new competitor-inspired ideas until G+
proves them.


  Sources

  Branches - GitHub Docs docs.github.com

8/28/2026, 4:15:56 PM




                         🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                        216 / 456
                                  @Web search so, no company website for now either?
                                                                              8/28/2026, 4:17:46 PM




  Thinking
  🌐 Searching the web
        ycombinator.com    news.ycombinator.com

   ●
       Planning the website
       I’m weighing timing against credibility. I’d start building a modular prelaunch site now
       —brand, mission, research direction, and contact path—while keeping architecture and
       performance claims deliberately provisional until the G/G+ benchmark stabilizes.
   ●
       Planned the website
   ●
       Searched 2 websites

  ✓ Worked for 10s


No - we can and probably should start the company website now. We just
shouldn't design it around technical claims that G+ may overturn.
The distinction is:

  Website design can start now. Architecture claims stay provisional until
  G+ validates them.

YC itself advises founders to launch early rather than wait for a perfect product, and
emphasizes getting something useful in front of people quickly. (Y Combinator) YC also
says applications should be exceptionally clear and matter-of-fact rather than relying
on grand marketing language. (Y Combinator)
So I would proceed with the Figma work.


What we can lock now


                             🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                    217 / 456
These parts are sufficiently fundamental to ALICE that G+ isn't going to invalidate
them:

    A.L.I.C.E. identity and brand
    the problem: current AI lacks durable cognitive continuity
    model-independent personal intelligence
    persistent lifelong memory rather than infinite context
    source-person / host / ALICE-self separation
    evidence and provenance
    user ownership/privacy
    the Experience → Decision → Outcome philosophy
    ALICE as the research implementation
    the eventual consumer product/company vision
    founder/research story
    visual language
    typography
    navigation
    animations
    general website layout

The Stage G/G+ handoff itself already treats persistent canonical lifetime, finite
working context, provenance, correction, rollback and future intelligent recollection as
hard architectural decisions. ALICE_STAGE_G_GPLUS_MEMORY_ARCHITECTURE_HANDOFF_2026-
08-23(3).md


What we should not lock yet
I would leave the detailed Technology / How ALICE Thinks section modular.
For example, don't currently publish something saying:

  “ALICE uses our proprietary Neo4j + Qdrant retrieval algorithm with X ranking
  formula.”

                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                               218 / 456
or:

  “ALICE's cognitive architecture is semantic + graph + temporal + Mission Graph
  reranking.”

or:

  “Our architecture outperforms Mem0/Hindsight/Pickle.”

G+ is literally supposed to determine those things.
Instead, today the public wording can simply be:

  ALICE maintains a persistent personal history outside the context window
  and reconstructs the relevant parts of that history when they're needed.

That's already accurate. The handoff explicitly defines ALICE as a finite-context model
connected to persistent, scalable, addressable lifelong memory.
ALICE_STAGE_G_GPLUS_MEMORY_ARCHITECTURE_HANDOFF_2026-08-23.md


I would actually build the website in two releases
Website v0.1 - now

  HOME
  │
  ├─ Hero
  │    AI should learn from what happens next.
  │
  ├─ The problem
  │    AI conversations start over.
  │
  ├─ The idea
  │    memory → experience → judgment
  │
  ├─ A.L.I.C.E.
  │    what we're building
  │
  ├─ Continuity
  │    persistent personal intelligence

                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                            219 / 456
 │
 ├─ Ownership
 │   your personal state belongs to you
 │
 ├─ Research
 │   what we're currently developing
 │
 ├─ About
 │
 └─ Follow / Early Access


Then:
Website v1.0 - after G+
We upgrade:

 TECHNOLOGY
 │
 ├─ actual winning memory architecture
 ├─ retrieval architecture
 ├─ cognitive recall demo
 ├─ benchmark results
 ├─ ablations
 └─ architecture diagrams

 DEMO
 │
 └─ real ALICE long-horizon recall


That second version is where we can finally say:

  Here is what we tested.
  Here are the competing architectures.
  Here is what won.
  Here is what ALICE actually does differently.

That would be considerably stronger than making architecture diagrams now based on
assumptions.




                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                       220 / 456
This actually improves our Figma strategy
We can design the whole visual system now with a replaceable technical module.
For example:

 HERO
 ↓
 PRODUCT THESIS
 ↓
 INTERACTIVE EXPERIENCE/OUTCOME STORY
 ↓
 WHY CURRENT AI FAILS
 ↓
 ALICE
 ↓
 ───────────────────────────────
 TECHNOLOGY MODULE
 [designed now, content finalized after G+]
 ───────────────────────────────
 ↓
 OWNERSHIP / PRIVACY
 ↓
 RESEARCH
 ↓
 ABOUT
 ↓
 EARLY ACCESS


G+ can change the contents of that box without forcing us to redesign the brand or
website.
And YC's own website-design guidance supports keeping an early site focused: one
clear CTA and a fast path to the product's “aha” moment, rather than filling the page
with unnecessary sections and animation. (Y Combinator)
One other reason I wouldn't delay: YC is currently still accepting late Fall 2026
applications as of August 28, 2026. (Y Combinator) I wouldn't make “finish G+,
then build the perfect website, then apply” a dependency chain. The company story,
application, product development and site can advance in parallel.
So my recommendation is:


                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                           221 / 456
Continue Stage G on Kaggle.
Prepare G+ research separately.
Start the ALICE website/Figma design now.
Do not finalize the technical-architecture claims until G+ gives us evidence.
And we can now go back to the thing we were doing before this competitive rabbit
hole: take the YC competitor research + actual ALICE identity and create the official
visual identity, sitemap, and first Figma/Stitch master prompt.


  Sources

  YC’s Essential Startup Advice | Y Combinator ycombinator.com

8/28/2026, 4:17:48 PM




                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                            222 / 456
 And we can now go back to the thing we were doing before this competitive rabbit
 hole: take the YC competitor research + actual ALICE identity and create the
 **official visual identity, sitemap, and first Figma/Stitch master prompt**.

                            @Web search yah let's do that. another thing,
                            remember in alice readme we showed how alice is
                            unique and different from existing products, we gotta
                            add these competing companies to that list
                            (considering stage G+ is done, phase 2 not canon
                            anymore, and we've overwritten the repo) and show
                            how alice is unique, what we have that they dont.

                            also, we gotta be carefull with our words. i dont want it
                            to sound similar to competing products. even if alice is
                            better, if we cant pitch it uniquely while preserving and
                            demonstrating what it is that loses all the purpose.

                            also, even if we cant mention the architecture till G+ is
                            done, we can show the updated plan we got after
                            comparing with competitors
                                                                      8/28/2026, 4:25:38 PM




Yes — that should become a formal positioning rule for both the website and the
future README: we can borrow architectural lessons, but our language must
be unmistakably ALICE’s. I’m checking the exact wording competitors use now,
plus the current README comparison section, so we can deliberately avoid converging
on their vocabulary.
The wording audit found one especially important collision: we should drop “learns
from what happens next” as a public signature line. HEBB is already using
“what happens next,” “outcome-tested learning loop,” and “longitudinal intelligence”
as core positioning.
Likewise, Pickle owns “memory-based operating system / life context / proactive
rather than reactive,” Sentience owns “digital version of you / model of your mind,”
Oki owns “digital home for your personal memories,” and Rowboat owns “AI coworker
with memory / living knowledge graph.”

                         🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                223 / 456
Thinking
●
    Compared existing AI assistants and positioned A.L.I.C.E.

🌐 Searching the web
     personal.ai   okihome.ai      sentience.com

●
    Searched 3 websites
●
    Reviewed repository README and compared related differences
    features

🌐 Searching the web
     rowboatlabs.com       docs.rowboatlabs.com     builder.pickle.com   sentient-os.ai   hebb.io

     pally.com

●
    Planning the launch system
    I’m turning the approved direction into a practical package: visual identity, site
    structure, product architecture, and a build prompt. I’m keeping the market informed
    by recent research while preserving the project’s own voice.
●
    Defining the launch package
    I’ll build the visual identity, sitemap, and master build prompt around ALICE’s distinct
    position. I’m also preserving honest language: tested capabilities will be separated
    from future architecture and research directions.
●
    Planned the launch system and defined its package

🌐 Searching the web
     memory.sourceant.ai      decisionlineageprotocol.io   memophant.co       memoir.sh

     cognaptus.com     kblip.com     offloadmemory.com       portal.ai   trusthouse.ai

     outcome.com

●
    Sharpening the hero
    I’m favoring “AI with continuity of judgment” because it distinguishes ALICE from
    memory, assistant, and digital-twin language. The supporting line can connect goals,
    evidence, decisions, outcomes, and evolving judgment across time.
●
    Strengthening the distinction
    I’m moving from “continuity of judgment” toward “remembers why.” It more clearly
    conveys ALICE’s unique promise: preserving goals, evidence, decisions, outcomes, and
    the reasons its judgment changes over time.

                             🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                          224 / 456
  ●
      Consolidating the direction
      I’m treating G+ as the current foundation and Phase 2 as retired. The next package will
      define ALICE’s identity, architecture, README positioning, competitor language
      boundaries, and a build-ready implementation prompt.
  ●
      Sharpened the hero and strengthened the overall direction
  ●
      Searched 6 websites

  ✓ Worked for 1m 25s


Yes. And the competitor research gives us a much better rule for the website and the
eventual post-G+ README:

  ALICE must not merely be technically different. It must be describable in a
  way that belongs to ALICE alone.

The current README already has the right underlying principle: individual capabilities
overlap with existing products; the differentiation comes from how they are connected
into one continuing system. But several phrases we were using are now too close to
competitors, so I would change the public language even where the underlying
architecture remains unchanged.

1. Words I would stop using as our headline language
The competitive wording audit is pretty decisive:

Avoid as ALICE's signature language             Why

“personal AI”                                   Generic category; Pally, Personal AI, others

“memory-based operating system”                 Pickle's exact territory

“understands your life/context”                 Pickle, Sentient OS, Oki

“grows/evolves with you”                        Pickle, Oki, Personal AI

“proactive rather than reactive”                Pickle

“digital twin”                                  Personal AI




                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                      225 / 456
Avoid as ALICE's signature language          Why

“digital version of you” / “model of your    Sentience
mind”

“AI coworker with memory”                    Rowboat

“memory that compounds”                      Rowboat/Pally territory

“remembers everything”                       Sentience/Sentient OS style

“what happens next”                          HEBB is explicitly building its brand around this

“outcome-tested learning loop”               HEBB

“longitudinal intelligence”                  HEBB

“digital home for your memories”             Oki


Pickle publicly calls itself a “personal, memory-based operating system” that
continuously learns context/preferences/intent and becomes proactive. (Y Combinator)
Sentience says it builds a “digital version of you” from memories, relationships,
decisions, values and judgment. (Sentience) HEBB explicitly owns the decision →
outcome → updated-personal-model narrative. (HEBB LABS)
So we should not sound like a better-written amalgamation of those companies.


2. The language I think should belong to ALICE
I would establish these as our vocabulary.
Category:

Personal Cognitive System
Keep that. It is already in the README, and it describes something broader than
assistant, memory layer, digital twin or decision OS.
Core technical/product thesis:


Continuity of judgment
Not just continuity of memory.


                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                   226 / 456
Not just personalization.
Not just persistent context.
ALICE preserves and develops the relationships among:
goals → evidence → judgment → decisions → consequences → revision
while also maintaining:
origin → host → self
as distinct identities.
That is far closer to what we've actually built.


The public ALICE proposition
My current favorite is:

Intelligence should have a history.
Then:

  A.L.I.C.E. is a personal cognitive system built to carry goals, evidence,
  decisions, consequences, and changing judgment across time.

And the second statement:

  The model can change. The continuity does not.

That's much more ALICE.
It avoids Pickle's memory-OS vocabulary, Sentience's digital-mind vocabulary, HEBB's
Decision-OS vocabulary and Oki's personal-memory vocabulary.


3. What makes that pitch actually different
Our story should not be:

  ALICE remembers more.

It should be:


                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                       227 / 456
ALICE maintains the history of its cognition.
Meaning it can eventually distinguish:

 What happened?

 What did the host say?

 What evidence existed then?

 What did ALICE believe then?

 What was it uncertain about?

 What goal was active?

 Why did it recommend something?

 What action followed?

 What changed afterward?

 What does it believe now?

 Why did its judgment change?


That is much richer than:

 retrieve old personal context
 → give personalized answer


And the current README already has most of those primitives: Mission Graph,
evidence-aware memory, Experience Ledger, judgment, outcome verification, learning
and model-independent continuity.


4. One ALICE-specific idea I want visually
emphasized
The most unusual identity architecture we have is:



                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                     228 / 456
           ORIGIN
     Source Person Model
             │
             ▼
           ALICE
         /       \
        /          \
     HOST          SELF
    MODEL      CONTINUITY
        \          /
         \       /
      RELATIONSHIP
         MODEL


A normal digital twin product generally has:

  USER
   ↓
  MODEL OF USER


ALICE's research case is stranger and much more interesting:

  SOURCE PERSON ≠ HOST ≠ ALICE SELF


The current README explicitly keeps SOURCE_HISTORY , SOURCE_PERSON_MODEL ,
 RECONSTRUCTION_INFERENCE , ALICE_CONTINUITY , and OWNER_RELATIONSHIP_MODEL
separate.
That should eventually become one of our strongest technical visualizations.
Not necessarily the hero.
But definitely part of the research story.


5. What happens to the README after G+
Yes: once G+ is complete, the successor architecture is validated, H/I/J have
eventually completed, Phase 2 has actually been retired, and the repo has
been rewritten to the new canonical architecture, we should substantially
upgrade the existing:


                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                      229 / 456
How A.L.I.C.E. Differs Across the AI Landscape

section.
Right now the README already compares against general assistants, memory
systems, digital twins, companions, autonomous agents, etc.
I would add a subsection specifically called something like:

Closest Adjacent Systems
And include:
Pickle
Oki
Sentience
Sentient OS
Rowboat
Pally
CORE
Personal AI
HEBB Personal Intelligence
Mem0 / Graphiti / Hindsight as memory/cognition infrastructure.
But I would not make the README into a giant competitor attack table.
Something more like:

System                        Their center of gravity          ALICE's distinction

Pickle                        Continuous life-context          Persistent missions, epistemic
                              capture → intent prediction →    authority, origin/host/self
                              proactive assistance             separation, and evaluated
                                                               cognitive history

Oki                           Private local digital-life       Memory is one substrate
                              memory/search/action             beneath continuing judgment,
                                                               missions and learning

Sentience                     Model/digital version of the     Clone-aware source
                              user and eventual mind           reconstruction can be distinct
                              emulation                        from the host and from ALICE's
                                                               later self



                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                   230 / 456
System                         Their center of gravity           ALICE's distinction

Sentient OS                    Local whole-life distillation →   Not primarily a knowledge
                               proactive computer actions        base/action layer; ALICE
                                                                 maintains governed cognitive
                                                                 state across time

Rowboat                        Local work knowledge graph + Whole-life mission and
                               work surfaces                cognitive continuity rather than
                                                            work-context continuity

Pally / CORE                   Context-aware proactive           ALICE's primary object is not
                               personal assistant                task execution; it maintains
                                                                 long-running goals, reasoning
                                                                 state and judgment

Personal AI                    Personal models/digital twins     ALICE identity is distributed
                               driven by memory                  above replaceable reasoning
                                                                 models and maintains
                                                                 source/host/self boundaries

HEBB                           Personal decisions validated      Decision/outcome learning
                               against outcomes                  becomes one part of a broader
                                                                 mission, identity, belief and
                                                                 cognitive architecture

Mem0 / Graphiti / Hindsight    Memory infrastructure and         ALICE can incorporate
                               retrieval                         whichever memory
                                                                 mechanisms win G+; memory
                                                                 remains a component of the
                                                                 larger cognitive system


Importantly, that last row is why our G+ tournament matters.
We don't say:

  “Our retrieval is better.”

until we have results.
Afterward we can say exactly what was tested and what won.




                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                    231 / 456
6. And yes - we CAN show our updated architecture
plan now
This is an important distinction.
We cannot say:

  ALICE uses architecture X.

if G+ hasn't chosen architecture X yet.
But we can absolutely say:

  This is the research program we're pursuing.

That could actually make the website stronger because it shows intellectual
seriousness.
For example:

Research Roadmap
  NOW
  ────────────────────────
  Stage G
  Durable cognitive memory

  Can a lifetime remain
  recoverable, correctable
  and authoritative?



  NEXT
  ────────────────────────
  Stage G+
  Intelligent recollection

  Which memories matter now?
  How should they be found?
  How much context is enough?




                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                      232 / 456
THEN
────────────────────────
Memory Evolution

What becomes durable?
What consolidates?
What changes belief?
What becomes skill?



THEN
────────────────────────
Cognitive Models

Host
Self
World
Social
Causal
Uncertainty



THEN
────────────────────────
Agency

Planning
Simulation
Research
Long-running missions
Tool use



THEN
────────────────────────
Personal Learning

Rankers
Routers
Adapters



                        🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter   233 / 456
  Training
  Measured self-improvement


And underneath:

  The architecture is evaluation-driven. Candidate mechanisms compete
  before becoming part of the system.

That is completely truthful now.
It also differentiates us from websites that merely announce a grand destination.


7. This changes the company website structure
slightly
My proposed official sitemap is now:

  A.L.I.C.E.
  │
  ├── HOME
  │
  │   ├── Hero
  │   ├── What is a Personal Cognitive System?
  │   ├── The cognitive-history demonstration
  │   ├── Missions
  │   ├── Evidence / judgment
  │   ├── Origin / Host / Self
  │   ├── Model independence
  │   └── Follow the build
  │
  ├── RESEARCH
  │
  │   ├── Current problem
  │   ├── Stage G
  │   ├── Stage G+
  │   ├── Candidate research directions
  │   ├── Evaluation philosophy
  │   └── Research roadmap
  │
  ├── SYSTEM
  │

                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                             234 / 456
  │   ├── Memory
  │   ├── Missions
  │   ├── Experience
  │   ├── Identity
  │   ├── Models
  │   └── Governance
  │
  ├── A.L.I.C.E.
  │
  │   ├── Flagship research implementation
  │   ├── Clone-aware identity
  │   ├── Origin / host / self
  │   └── Current development state
  │
  ├── BUILD
  │
  │   ├── GitHub
  │   ├── Technical docs
  │   └── Progress
  │
  └── ABOUT
      ├── Why we're building it
      └── Company / team


After G+, SYSTEM becomes much richer with the winning architecture, actual
evaluations and interactive demos.


8. Visual identity
I would name our visual system:

The Cognitive Trace
Not a memory line.
Not a neural network.
Not a brain.
Every important ALICE visualization uses the same grammar:
state → reason → transition
For example:

                         🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                       235 / 456
  GOAL
   ●
   │
   │ evidence enters
   │
   ● JUDGMENT
   │
   │ decision
   │
   ● ACTION
   │
   │ reality
   │
   ● CONSEQUENCE
   │
   │ revision
   │
   ● NEW STATE


The line doesn't merely mean time.
It means:

  the continuity of a changing cognitive state.

That becomes our recognizable visual device.


Brand palette
I still favor a light, serious identity.
Canvas
#F3F1EA

Primary ink
#111312

Secondary ink
#676B68

ALICE trace
deep desaturated blue around #536F8D


                              🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter   236 / 456
Evidence
muted amber
Conflict
restrained oxide/red
Revision
muted green
No decorative rainbow.
Colors have semantic meaning.


Typography
Geist - almost everything.
IBM Plex Mono - evidence, metadata, provenance, model/state information.
One restrained serif - only for occasional conceptual statements or research
quotations.
No giant fashion-editorial serif everywhere.


9. Logo direction
I would not use:
brain
robot
butterfly
woman silhouette
orb
neural network
sparkle
magic wand
Instead:

A.L.I.C.E. as the primary wordmark.

And use the periods as state nodes.
Something conceptually like:

                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                        237 / 456
  A • L • I • C • E
      ───────────


The five dots can become part of our motion language.
On load:

  A . L . I . C . E
    ●──●──●──●


Each state exists because of the previous one.
Subtle.
Not a gimmick.


10. Homepage hero
I would now move away from our earlier memory-heavy copy.
Something closer to:

Intelligence should have a history.
A.L.I.C.E. is a personal cognitive system built to carry goals, evidence,
decisions, consequences, and changing judgment across time.
Explore the system →
View the research

Under it:

        WHAT MATTERED
             │
             ▼
  GOAL ── EVIDENCE ── JUDGMENT ── ACTION
                                 │
                                 ▼
                             CONSEQUENCE
                                 │
                                 ▼
                              REVISION



                         🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                      238 / 456
                                   │
                                   └────────→ FUTURE


Then the user scrolls.
The whole thing starts moving.


11. And the hero demo should now be slightly
different
Instead of merely:

  five conversations → one life

-which Pickle can basically claim too-
show:

Two identical questions. Two different moments.
At the top:

  2026

User:

  Should I take this research opportunity?

ALICE recommends YES.
Visitor clicks Why?
They see:

  Goal       research experience
  Constraint manageable workload
  Evidence   prior performance
  Confidence .78


Scroll three years.



                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter   239 / 456
  2029

Same question.
ALICE recommends NO.
Why did your answer change?

Click.

  The goal changed.

  The workload assumption was wrong twice.

  A previous research commitment
  produced a better outcome than
  parallel commitments.

  Current Mission 04 has priority.

  My previous confidence was too high.


And then:

The answer changed because the system did.
That is very ALICE.
Pickle can remember you.
Oki can retrieve your life.
Pally can act for you.
HEBB can track decision outcomes.
But this demonstration brings together:
history + missions + evidence + calibration + outcomes + changing
judgment.
That's our territory.


12. First master Figma / Stitch prompt
This is what I would actually use for the first exploration.

                              🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter         240 / 456
:::writing{variant="document" id="48371"}
Design the official website for A.L.I.C.E., an early-stage AI research startup
developing a new category called a Personal Cognitive System.
A.L.I.C.E. is not being positioned as a chatbot, generic personal AI assistant, digital
twin, memory app, second brain, AI coworker, or automation agent.
The central idea is continuity of judgment.
A.L.I.C.E. is being built to maintain the relationships between a person's goals,
evidence, decisions, actions, consequences, corrections, and changing judgment
across long periods of time.
Its reasoning models are replaceable. Its continuity exists above the model layer.
The flagship A.L.I.C.E. research implementation also maintains strict distinctions
among:

    source-person history and personality reconstruction;
    uncertain reconstruction hypotheses;
    the current host/user model;
    A.L.I.C.E.'s own post-activation continuity/self;
    the evolving relationship between A.L.I.C.E. and its host.

The website must feel like a serious frontier technology/research company, not a
generic AI SaaS landing page.


Core visual concept
Create a proprietary visual language called The Cognitive Trace.
Use a continuous fine line with structured nodes to represent the evolution of
cognitive state:
Goal → Evidence → Judgment → Decision → Action → Consequence → Revision → Future
Judgment.
The line represents causal and cognitive continuity, not merely chronological time.
As users scroll, the same trace should evolve throughout the website. It can branch
when evidence conflicts, reconnect when a decision is resolved, show uncertainty,
identify provenance, and visibly change later judgment.

                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                  241 / 456
Do NOT use:

    glowing AI orbs;
    brains;
    humanoid robots;
    neural-network particle clouds;
    purple/blue gradient blobs;
    excessive glassmorphism;
    generic SaaS bento grids;
    random 3D chrome objects;
    stock photography;
    fake testimonials;
    fake enterprise logos;
    decorative AI sparkles;
    generic “future of AI” imagery.


Brand tone
Serious.
Intelligent.
Restrained.
Research-oriented.
Human without being sentimental.
Technically rigorous without looking like developer documentation.
Confident without making unverified claims.
The site should feel closer to a research laboratory, operating system, and beautifully
designed scientific publication than to a conventional SaaS landing page.


Color system
Use a warm near-white canvas around #F3F1EA.
Primary text should be near-black around #111312.


                             🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                          242 / 456
Secondary text should be muted neutral gray.
Use one deep desaturated blue around #536F8D as the principal A.L.I.C.E. trace color.
Semantic accent colors may appear only when they communicate meaning:

    evidence = muted amber;
    conflict/correction = restrained oxide red;
    verified revision/outcome = muted green;
    inference/uncertainty = desaturated violet-gray.

Color must communicate cognitive state rather than decorate the interface.


Typography
Use Geist or an equivalent modern grotesk sans-serif as the principal typography.
Use IBM Plex Mono or equivalent monospace typography for evidence, provenance,
confidence, dates, states, system metadata, and technical annotations.
A restrained editorial serif may appear very occasionally for conceptual emphasis, but
must not dominate the site.
Typography should feel highly intentional, spacious, and mature.


Navigation
A.L.I.C.E.
Research
System
A.L.I.C.E.
Build
About
Primary CTA: Explore the system
Secondary CTA: View the research


Homepage
1. Hero


                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                             243 / 456
Large headline:
Intelligence should have a history.
Supporting copy:
A.L.I.C.E. is a personal cognitive system built to carry goals, evidence,
decisions, consequences, and changing judgment across time.
Below it, show the beginning of the Cognitive Trace:
Goal → Evidence → Judgment → Action → Consequence → Revision.
The animation must communicate functionality rather than merely decorate the page.

2. Changing Judgment Demo
Create the signature interactive website moment.
Show the same user asking a consequential question at two different points in time.
Example:
2026:
“Should I take this research opportunity?”
A.L.I.C.E. recommends YES.
Allow the visitor to open “Why?”
Display structured evidence:

    active mission;
    constraints;
    relevant evidence;
    assumptions;
    confidence.

Then move forward several years.
The same kind of opportunity appears again.
This time A.L.I.C.E. recommends NO.
Allow the visitor to click:
Why did your answer change?


                              🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                      244 / 456
Reveal:

    changed goals;
    failed assumptions;
    outcomes from previous decisions;
    updated confidence;
    current mission priority.

Finish with:
The answer changed because the system did.
The purpose is to demonstrate continuity of judgment rather than memory recall.

3. From prompts to missions
Explain that questions do not necessarily exist as isolated chats.
Visualize a Mission Graph in an extremely clean way.
Show multiple requests connecting to larger goals, dependencies, conflicts and
unresolved threads.
Avoid showing a generic node-cloud knowledge graph.
The graph should communicate direction and causality.

4. Evidence, not remembered text
Show an inspectable cognitive record.
Distinguish visually among:

    direct evidence;
    observation;
    inference;
    prediction;
    correction;
    uncertainty;
    superseded information.


                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                          245 / 456
Use provenance indicators and timestamps.
Communicate:
What A.L.I.C.E. knows and how it knows it are different questions.

5. Origin / Host / Self
Create a sophisticated visualization showing three identities that must never collapse
into one another:
SOURCE PERSON
↓
evidence-grounded identity foundation
HOST
↓
the person A.L.I.C.E. currently serves and learns about
A.L.I.C.E. SELF
↓
A.L.I.C.E.'s own post-activation experiences and development
Connect these through a separate relationship model.
This section should communicate clone-aware identity without suggesting that
A.L.I.C.E. literally is the biological source person.

6. Model independence
Headline concept:
The model can change. The continuity does not.
Show A.L.I.C.E. above several interchangeable reasoning engines:
local models, frontier models, specialist models, future models.
Memory, missions, identity, experience and evaluation remain outside and above the
replaceable reasoning engine.

7. Research roadmap
This section must explicitly distinguish implemented/current research from future
architecture.
Use a horizontal or vertical research progression:


                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                             246 / 456
CURRENT:
Stage G - durable cognitive memory and recall baseline.
NEXT:
Stage G+ - intelligent memory attention and recollection.
PLANNED:
Memory evolution - consolidation, reflection, belief revision, skills.
PLANNED:
Cognitive models - host, self, world, social, causal, uncertainty.
PLANNED:
Agency - planning, simulation, research and long-running missions.
PLANNED:
Personal learning - rankers, routers, adapters and measured model improvement.
Include:
Candidate mechanisms compete in evaluation before becoming part of
A.L.I.C.E.
Do not present experimental mechanisms as already deployed.

8. Ownership
Present privacy and owner control as structural properties rather than security
marketing.
Show:

    owner-controlled persistent state;
    replaceable models;
    inspectable provenance;
    correction;
    deletion;
    rollback;
    explicit authority boundaries.

Avoid shield icons and generic “enterprise-grade security” graphics.


                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                          247 / 456
9. Research implementation
Explain that A.L.I.C.E. is the flagship research implementation where new cognitive
capabilities are developed and evaluated before transferable mechanisms become
product capabilities for other users.
Do not present the internal codename “Friday” as the public consumer brand.

10. Final CTA
Keep it simple.
Follow the build.
Buttons:
View GitHub
Read the research


Layout principles
Use large areas of intentional whitespace.
Avoid repetitive card grids.
Allow some sections to occupy nearly an entire viewport with a single strong
statement or interaction.
Create visual hierarchy through typography, state traces and information relationships
rather than decorative containers.
Use cards only when the content is genuinely an object: memory record, evidence
record, decision, mission, evaluation result.
Desktop should feel cinematic but restrained.
Mobile must retain the Cognitive Trace concept in a simplified vertical form.


Interaction principles
Motion must always explain state change.
Examples:

    evidence entering a judgment;
    a prediction later being evaluated;


                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                          248 / 456
    an outdated belief being superseded;
    a mission gaining or losing priority;
    a cognitive trace branching after conflicting evidence;
    a later decision visibly referencing an older consequence.

Avoid animation that has no semantic purpose.


Competitive differentiation constraint
Do not use language or visual positioning associated with:

    “memory-based operating system”;
    “digital twin”;
    “digital version of you”;
    “AI coworker with memory”;
    “digital home for your memories”;
    “proactive rather than reactive”;
    “AI that understands your entire life”;
    “outcome-tested learning loop”;
    “what happens next” as the central tagline;
    generic “AI that grows with you.”

The design should make A.L.I.C.E. feel like its own category:
a Personal Cognitive System centered on continuity of judgment.
Generate three substantially different visual executions of this exact product
thesis, not three unrelated products:

1. Scientific System - minimal, rigorous, architectural.
2. Human Continuity - warmer and more intimate while remaining technical.
3. Cognitive Instrument - more experimental, interactive and system-like.

All three must preserve the same brand logic, Cognitive Trace, information
architecture, and semantic color system.

                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                     249 / 456
:::
That is what I'd give Stitch first, and then we'd bring the strongest direction into
Figma and refine it manually.
And yes: the future post-G+ README comparison and the website should share one
positioning dictionary. We should literally maintain an internal
 BRAND_AND_POSITIONING_LANGUAGE.md eventually containing “preferred ALICE terms,”
“competitor-owned/overused terms to avoid,” exact category definitions, and claims
that require evaluation evidence. That will stop the website, README, YC application
and pitch deck from gradually drifting into generic personal-AI language.


      Sources

      Pickle: Where your life context becomes understanding. | Y        ycombinator.com
      Combinator

      Sentience | Build the digital version of you sentience.com

      Personal Intelligence — HEBB LABS hebb.io

8/28/2026, 4:25:39 PM




                              🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                            250 / 456
                               @Web search connect figma ai though mcp. also, the
                               name of our consumer product is Fable Sleight, where
                               friday is the internal codename
                                                                            8/28/2026, 4:38:19 PM




I’ll check both sides: whether ChatGPT can connect to Figma through an available
app/plugin here, and Figma’s current official MCP setup so we use the cleanest route.
And I’ve got the naming update: Fable Sleight is the consumer product; Friday stays
internal-only.

  Thinking
  ●
      Searched official Figma MCP plugin resources

  🌐 Searching the web
       figma.com     developers.figma.com   help.figma.com

  ●
      Connecting Figma access
      I’m checking the current official Figma integration so I can distinguish supported
      connection options from assumptions. I’ll then guide the user toward the available
      authorization path for using Figma through MCP.
  ●
      Searched 3 websites

  ✓ Worked for 49s


Yes. I found the official Figma integration available inside ChatGPT and surfaced
the connection control above. Connect/authorize Figma there first. Once it is
connected, I can inspect the Figma capabilities exposed to this chat and we can use
the integration directly rather than manually transferring prompts/design specs.
Figma also now has an official remote MCP server at https://mcp.figma.com/mcp . It can
expose structured Figma context-frames, components, variables, layout information-
and, for supported clients, can also write native editable content back to the
Figma canvas. Figma recommends the remote MCP server over its older
desktop/local server. (Figma Developers)


                             🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                  251 / 456
There is one plan caveat relevant to our no-spending approach: Figma says the
remote MCP server is available across plans, but the newer write-to-canvas
capability is currently tied to Full/Dev seats on paid plans, with some draft access
distinctions during beta. (Figma Help Center) So after you connect the Figma
integration here, I’ll check exactly what actions your connected account exposes
before deciding our workflow.
And yes, branding is now corrected going forward:
A.L.I.C.E. = flagship research intelligence
Fable Sleight = consumer product/company-facing product name
Friday = internal development codename only
That means the website should eventually say something like “A.L.I.C.E. is the
flagship research system behind Fable Sleight”. We should not expose “Friday”
in consumer-facing copy except perhaps in historical/internal technical documentation.
Once you authorize the Figma connection above, send me “connected”. Then I’ll
inspect what Figma gives us and we can start the first Scientific System / Human
Continuity / Cognitive Instrument design exploration directly.


  Sources

  Set up the remote server (recommended) | Developer Docs developers.figma.com

  Get started with the Figma MCP server – Figma Learn - Help Center help.figma.com

8/28/2026, 4:38:21 PM




  Thinking
  🌐 Searching the web
        developers.figma.com    help.figma.com

  ●
      Searched 2 websites

  ✓ Worked for 7s




                               🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                       252 / 456
Connected. The Figma integration is active in this chat now, so we can use the official
Figma MCP tools directly.
Figma’s official docs confirm the remote MCP is the preferred route and supports
native write-to-canvas workflows-frames, components, variables, Auto Layout, etc.-
rather than just screenshots. (Figma Developers)
One caveat: Figma’s docs say write-to-canvas requires a Full seat for normal files;
Dev seats are read-only outside drafts, while the remote MCP itself is available more
broadly. (Figma Help Center)
And branding is now fixed for our work:

    A.L.I.C.E. - flagship research intelligence
    Fable Sleight - consumer product
    Friday - internal codename only

So the next move is: I can create a new Figma Design file for the A.L.I.C.E./Fable
Sleight company website and generate the first three visual directions we discussed.
Since this will be a from-scratch Figma write, I can do it directly through the connected
MCP.


  Sources

  Set up the remote server (recommended) | Developer Docs developers.figma.com

  Guide to the Figma MCP server – Figma Learn - Help Center help.figma.com

8/28/2026, 4:40:07 PM




                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                             253 / 456
                               @Web search first generate the updated and full idea
                               (which you already almost did)for the version v0.1.
                               then start building the website or gimme command on
                               manually making if free mcp plan dont allow
                                                                           8/28/2026, 4:43:56 PM




I’m going to do this in two parts: first I’ll freeze a complete v0.1 website concept
with the copy, page structure, visual system, and what is deliberately deferred until
G+. Then I’ll check whether your connected Figma account exposes write-to-canvas
on its current plan and, if it does, I’ll start the file directly; if not, I’ll give you the
shortest manual/Figma-AI route with the exact master prompt.
8/28/2026, 4:43:58 PM




Your connected Figma account is on Starter with a View seat, so the likely limitation
is not file creation—it’s canvas write access. I’ll still try the clean path: create the
design file first, then test a tiny write. If Figma blocks the write, I’ll stop there and give
you the exact manual/Figma-AI build sequence instead of forcing a broken workflow.
8/28/2026, 4:45:31 PM




Good news: the MCP can write to your Figma file despite the Starter/View-seat
setup. The write test succeeded, so we do not need the manual fallback right now.
I’m freezing v0.1 around one public thesis—“Intelligence should have a
history.”—and I’m deliberately keeping G+ implementation details out of the
marketing copy while still showing the updated research plan. I’ll build the first
desktop homepage structure now so you can open it in Figma and review the
direction.
The first real build call hit a Figma auto-layout ordering rule before creating anything,
so the file is still clean. I’ve isolated it: child frames must be appended to the auto-



                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                  254 / 456
layout parent before setting them to fill width. I’m correcting that and continuing
without changing the design spec.
The first real screen is now in Figma: navigation, hero, dual CTA, and the opening
Cognitive Trace are live and editable. I’m adding the signature “same question,
different judgment” demonstration next, because that is the piece that most clearly
separates ALICE from memory-first competitors.

  Thinking
  🌐 Searching the web
        figma.com   help.figma.com

   ●
       Searched 2 websites
   ●
       Built LayerCore and NeuroTrace research platform homepages
   ●
       Retried Figma design creation and created hero navigation
       components
   ●
       Built premium climate technology websites, demos, roadmaps, and
       verified design screenshots

  ✓ Worked for 2m 17s


Yes - and the good news is we do not need the manual fallback. I tested your
connected Figma account directly: despite being on Starter with a View seat, the MCP
successfully created a design file and wrote editable native Figma layers into it.
Your account does have a low MCP read allowance-Starter View/Collab is documented
as up to 20 calls/month-but some write operations are treated differently.
I’ve already started building the actual site.
Open A.L.I.C.E. — Company Website v0.1 in Figma

A.L.I.C.E. Company Website - v0.1
The purpose of v0.1 is not to pretend we already have the final post-G+ architecture.
It needs to establish four things convincingly:
what category we're creating → what ALICE fundamentally does differently →
what exists/researches now → where Fable Sleight comes from.

                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                             255 / 456
The public category is:

Personal Cognitive System
And the main thesis is:

Intelligence should have a history.
Supporting copy:

  A.L.I.C.E. is a personal cognitive system built to carry goals, evidence,
  decisions, consequences, and changing judgment across time.

This is deliberately different from competitors' language:

    not Pickle's “memory-based operating system”;
    not Sentience's “digital version of you”;
    not Oki's digital-home-for-memory framing;
    not Rowboat's “coworker with memory”;
    not HEBB's “what happens next / outcome-tested loop”;
    not generic “AI that grows with you.”

That matters because our README already correctly says ALICE's difference isn't that
every individual capability is unprecedented; it is how they are joined around one
continuing intelligence.


The visual identity
I've based the design around a system we're calling:

The Cognitive Trace
A thin structured line follows cognitive state through the site:

  GOAL
    ●
    │
  EVIDENCE
    ●

                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                         256 / 456
    │
  JUDGMENT
    ●
    │
  ACTION
    ●
    │
  CONSEQUENCE
    ●
    │
  REVISION
    ●
    │
  FUTURE JUDGMENT


It isn't a timeline.
It represents how cognition changes because of what happened before.
That becomes ALICE's recognizable visual language instead of an orb, neural-net
particles, brain illustration or generic AI gradient.


Current visual system
Canvas: warm near-white
#F3F1EA

Ink: near black
#111312

Cognitive Trace: desaturated blue
roughly #536F8D
Evidence: restrained amber
Conflict/correction: oxide red
Verified revision: muted green
Typography is:
Geist - primary interface/brand
IBM Plex Mono - state, provenance, confidence, evidence, dates



                         🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                            257 / 456
I verified both fonts are actually available in your Figma environment, along with
Instrument Serif.


Homepage structure
The current Figma file is a 1440px desktop homepage, roughly following this
sequence:

1. Navigation
A.L.I.C.E.
Research
System
A.L.I.C.E.
Build
About

Primary action:
Explore the system


2. Hero
Already built.

  PERSONAL COGNITIVE SYSTEM

**Intelligence should
have a history.**
Then:

  A.L.I.C.E. is a personal cognitive system built to carry goals, evidence, decisions,
  consequences, and changing judgment across time.

Actions:
Explore the system
View the research


                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                              258 / 456
Then the first Cognitive Trace:
GOAL - EVIDENCE - JUDGMENT - ACTION - CONSEQUENCE - REVISION


3. Signature demonstration
This is already built too.
It's deliberately not a memory retrieval demo.
The visitor sees:


2026
  “Should I take this research opportunity?”

YES
And the reason:

  ACTIVE MISSION     build research depth
  CONSTRAINT         workload manageable
  EVIDENCE           prior project success
  ASSUMPTION         parallel work is sustainable
  CONFIDENCE         0.78


Then the same question appears later.


2029
  “Should I take this research opportunity?”

NO
Because:

  GOAL CHANGED        current mission has priority
  OUTCOME HISTORY     overload repeated twice
  REVISION            workload assumption weakened
  EVIDENCE            parallel commitments underperformed
  CONFIDENCE          0.86


Then:

                             🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter     259 / 456
The answer changed because the system did.
That is the strongest homepage idea we have right now.
It demonstrates continuity of judgment, not just persistent memory.


4. Missions, not chat tabs
Already built.
Headline:

A question can be part of something larger.
Then a clean Mission Graph example:

  GOAL Build long-term technical direction
  │
  ├─ Research depth
  │ ├─ publish work
  │ └─ open-source contribution
  │
  ├─ Internship strategy
  │ └─ interview preparation
  │
  └─ Graduate study ↔ finances / timing


This communicates a key ALICE distinction without dumping the implementation
details of Mission Graph onto the visitor.


5. Epistemic memory
Already built.
Main line:

What A.L.I.C.E. knows and how it knows it are
different questions.
And instead of generic “Memory” cards, there's an actual cognitive record:

  “Parallel commitments have repeatedly reduced follow-through.”



                         🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                         260 / 456
  TYPE             OBSERVATION
  SOURCE           3 outcome-linked experiences
  CONFIDENCE       0.81
  EVIDENCE FOR     EXP-014 · EXP-028 · EXP-041
  EVIDENCE AGAINST EXP-033
  STATUS           ACTIVE · revisable
  INFLUENCED       Mission 4 priority decision


That directly communicates ALICE's provenance philosophy.
The current README already distinguishes direct evidence, observations, inferences,
predictions, reconstructions, disputed records and corrections rather than flattening all
memory into fact.


6. Origin / Host / Self
Already built.
This is particularly important because it tells a story our closest competitors generally
don't.

One intelligence. Three histories that must never
collapse.
Three surfaces:


SOURCE PERSON
Origin
Evidence-grounded source history and personality reconstruction.


HOST
Present person
The person ALICE currently serves and learns about.


A.L.I.C.E. SELF
Continuity
ALICE's own experiences and development after activation.

                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                             261 / 456
Then:

  SOURCE ≠ HOST ≠ SELF

with the relationship state connecting them without merging them.
The current ALICE architecture already explicitly separates source history/person
model, reconstruction inference, ALICE continuity and owner relationship state.


7. Model independence
Already built.
Dark section.

**The model can change.
The continuity does not.**
Visual:

  A.L.I.C.E.
     │
     ├── Local reasoning model
     ├── Frontier reasoning model
     ├── Specialist model
     └── Future model

  Persistent above the engine:

  IDENTITY
  MISSIONS
  EVIDENCE
  EXPERIENCE
  EVALUATION


This is an extremely important distinction for both customers and investors.
ALICE isn't whichever LLM speaks for it today.
The README already makes that architectural principle explicit.



                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                             262 / 456
8. Research roadmap
This is where we handle the fact that G+ isn't done.
Already built.
Main statement:

Architecture is earned, not announced.
Then:

  Candidate mechanisms compete in evaluation before becoming part of A.L.I.C.E.

And the roadmap:

NOW - Stage G
Durable cognitive memory
Can a lifetime remain recoverable, correctable, authoritative and reachable?


NEXT - Stage G+
Intelligent recollection
Which memories matter now?
Which retrieval path should find them?
How much context is enough?


PLANNED - Memory Evolution
Consolidation, reflection, belief revision, skills.

PLANNED - Cognitive Models
Host, self, world, social, causal, uncertainty.


PLANNED - Agency + Personal Learning
Planning, long-running missions, rankers, routers, adapters and measured
improvement.

                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                      263 / 456
This lets us show our updated architecture direction from the competitive
research without falsely claiming the unvalidated G+ winner already exists.
That's exactly the distinction we wanted.


9. Ownership
Already built.
I avoided the usual security shield graphics.
Headline:

Deep personalization requires deep ownership.
Then:

  Owner-controlled state, inspectable provenance, correction, deletion, rollback,
  explicit authority boundaries, and replaceable models are structural requirements-
  not decorative privacy claims.

And small operational labels:
INSPECT
CORRECT
DELETE
ROLL BACK
REPLACE MODEL
REVOKE ACCESS


10. A.L.I.C.E. → Fable Sleight
Also already built, incorporating your naming correction.

**A.L.I.C.E. develops the frontier.
Fable Sleight carries the proven capability
forward.**
And:


                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                          264 / 456
  A.L.I.C.E. is the owner-specific flagship research intelligence. Fable Sleight is the
  consumer product built from transferable capabilities only after they are
  implemented, evaluated, and productized without carrying over A.L.I.C.E.'s private
  identity, memories, relationship state, or learned private weights.

Then:

  A.L.I.C.E. RESEARCH
           →
  IMPLEMENTATION
           →
  EVALUATION
           →
  APPROVAL
           →
  HOST-NEUTRAL CAPABILITY
           →
  FABLE SLEIGHT


Friday does not appear anywhere on the public website.
That's how it should stay.


11. Final CTA / footer
The skeleton footer is already there:
A.L.I.C.E.
FLAGSHIP RESEARCH INTELLIGENCE · FABLE SLEIGHT CONSUMER PRODUCT

The final version will add:
Follow the build
View GitHub
Read the research

Potentially:
Join early access

once we actually have an early-access destination.



                              🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                         265 / 456
What is intentionally NOT in v0.1
This is important.
There will be no claimed final G+ retrieval architecture.
No:

  ALICE uses Hindsight-style TEMPR.

No:

  our graph retrieval beats Mem0.

No:

  proprietary cognitive reranker X.

No benchmark victory claims.
No architecture diagrams pretending challenger mechanisms are canonical.
Instead the site says:

  we are testing them.

That's more credible anyway.


Figma / AI plan from here
Figma Make is actually available to try on Starter, and Figma says it can take an
existing design frame and turn it into a responsive interactive site, then let us
continue refining through prompts and visual editing. (Figma)
However, ordinary Figma Design AI tools generally require a paid Full seat. (Figma
Help Center) The interesting exception is the agent/Make trial behavior: Figma
currently allows View/Dev/Collab users to try the agent in Drafts, which is exactly
where our generated file lives. (Figma Help Center)
So our best free workflow now is actually:




                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                               266 / 456
 ChatGPT + Figma MCP
         ↓
 native editable Figma Design
         ↓
 we refine visual identity here
         ↓
 Figma Make trial
         ↓
 interactive prototype
         ↓
 we code production site ourselves
         ↓
 free deployment


Which is essentially the ideal workflow we wanted.


Current status
File created: yes
MCP write access: yes
Desktop homepage wrapper: yes
Hero: yes
Cognitive Trace: yes
Changing Judgment demo: yes
Mission section: yes
Evidence section: yes
Origin/Host/Self: yes
Model independence: yes
Research roadmap: yes
Ownership: yes
Fable Sleight relationship: yes
Footer foundation: yes
The next design pass should be visual refinement, not adding more content: tighten
spacing, create the actual flowing Cognitive Trace between sections, improve the
Mission Graph from text into a real visual structure, make the changing-judgment
demo more interactive-looking, establish mobile behavior, and then produce the other
two visual directions for comparison.

                         🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                          267 / 456
Open the live editable v0.1 Figma file


  Sources

  Free AI Web Design Generator | Figma figma.com

  Use AI tools in Figma Design – Figma Learn - Help Center help.figma.com

8/28/2026, 4:46:31 PM




                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                     268 / 456
                               @Web search complete the full website then gimme
                               the files so i can run and see them in my local pc
                                                                              8/28/2026, 5:08:53 PM




I’m turning the v0.1 concept into a real runnable site, not just exporting the Figma
mockup. I’ll keep the architecture claims conservative, build the interactive Cognitive
Trace / changing-judgment demo directly in code, and package the whole project so
you can run it locally with one install + one start command.
The local build will be a complete multi-page static site, so you won’t need Node
just to preview it. I’m making Home / Research / System / A.L.I.C.E. / Build /
About , sharing one responsive design system and interaction script, then I’ll zip the
project and include a one-command local server launcher for Windows.
The full six-page site is generated and packaged. I’m doing a final local QA now:
checking every internal link, script/style reference, page title, responsive assets, and
actually serving the folder over localhost so I don’t hand you a ZIP that only looks
correct on paper.

  Thinking
  ●
      Building the website
      I’m planning a polished local Vite site inspired by the provided design: high-contrast
      editorial styling, responsive layouts, interactive navigation, category filters, and
      accessible motion.
  ●
      Built the website

  🌐 Searching the web
       help.figma.com    ycombinator.com    figma.com

  ●
      Creating a local site
      I’m shaping the project as a self-contained responsive frontend with no backend
      dependency. I’m covering page structure, visual styling, responsive behavior,
      accessibility, and interactions so it runs easily on a local computer.
  ●
      Created a local site


                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                      269 / 456
  ●
        Searched 3 websites

  🌐 Creating Alice company website files
  ●
        Created Alice company website files and homepage HTML

  🌐 Validating HTML links and pages
  ●
        Validated HTML links, checked rendering tools, captured screenshots,
        and cleaned processes

  ✓ Worked for 4m 21s


Done. I built the complete A.L.I.C.E. company website v0.1 as a runnable six-
page responsive site and packaged it for your Windows PC.
Download the complete website ZIP
Open the included README / run instructions
Open the editable Figma design
The package contains:

      Home - Cognitive Trace, interactive 2026→2029 changing-judgment demo,
      Mission Graph, evidence/provenance, Origin/Host/Self, model independence, Stage
      G/G+ roadmap, ownership, and A.L.I.C.E. → Fable Sleight.
      Research - Stage G, G+, candidate retrieval research, future cognition, and
      evaluation philosophy.
      System - cognitive loop, missions, epistemic memory, Experience Ledger, model
      independence, ownership.
      A.L.I.C.E. - clone-aware identity, source/host/self separation, synthetic
      reconstruction boundary, A.L.I.C.E. continuity, Fable Sleight boundary.
      Build - evaluation-before-claims philosophy, current Stage G/G+ development
      status, GitHub.
      About - category thesis, Personal Cognitive System positioning, A.L.I.C.E./Fable
      Sleight relationship, and differentiation language.

It is dependency-free HTML/CSS/JavaScript. No Node/npm installation is required.


                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                            270 / 456
On Windows, unzip it and simply double-click:

  START_SITE.bat


It will open:

  http://localhost:8080


You can also run:

  Set-Location "PATH\TO\alice-company-website-v0.1"
  .\serve.ps1


or:

  python -m http.server 8080


I also did a local QA pass. All six pages returned HTTP 200 , and the internal asset/link
check found zero missing references.
The responsive structure follows Figma's current guidance of treating the page as
vertically stacked responsive section containers, while the homepage keeps the
product story focused on an early “aha” interaction instead of filling the page with
generic marketing blocks. (Figma Help Center)
One deliberate limitation remains: v0.1 does not claim a final G+ architecture or
benchmark win. It shows the updated competitor-informed research plan, but
language such as hybrid recall, associative activation, mission-aware salience, and
deliberate recollection is clearly presented as candidate research. Once G+ finishes,
we can turn the winning architecture and actual benchmark evidence into v1.0.
And the public naming is clean throughout: A.L.I.C.E. = flagship research
intelligence, Fable Sleight = consumer product, Friday never appears
publicly.


  Sources




                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                               271 / 456
 https://help.figma.com/hc/en-us/articles/33257143505175-Tips-for-   help.figma.com
 creating-a-responsive-webpage-in-Figma-Sites

8/28/2026, 5:09:01 PM




                        🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                           272 / 456
                            @Web search no. i dont like it at all. its so bland,
                            doesn't catch the attention, vaguely explains, and
                            starts hurting your head if you try to understand it. its
                            sounds like bunch of key words thrown together. even if
                            you read the whole thing, you dont understand
                            anything.

                            we should step by step tell and demonstrate in simple
                            terms how alice works exactly in the front page. also,
                            we gotta generate more unoue and creative ideas. take
                            inspiration from the competing and other simialar
                            company websites. right now its a garbage
                                                                     8/28/2026, 5:21:27 PM




Yeah — the problem is clear. I over-indexed on “serious research company” and ended
up with abstract architecture language before the visitor even understands
the product. The next version should work like a story/demo: show one person, one
problem, one decision, one consequence, then reveal what ALICE remembered and
learned.
I’m redoing the concept from the ground up using the strongest current patterns from
adjacent AI companies — especially the ones that explain a complicated product
through concrete scenarios first, architecture second.
I found the exact pattern we should steal—not the visual style, but the explanation
mechanics:

   Pally starts with one everyday problem (“loose threads everywhere”), then
   visually gathers them into one conversation. No architecture first.
   Rowboat puts a clickable product snapshot near the top and lets you experience
   the idea before reading “how it works.”
   Oki explains itself as three concrete behaviors—Memory → Intelligence → Action—
   and every claim is paired with a realistic UI example and source evidence.




                         🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                               273 / 456
      Pickle is extremely sparse and visual: one human-scale promise per screen, then
      use cases like cooking, studying, trips, and planning.
      Granola does “before / during / after” with the actual product UI, which makes a
      complicated system feel obvious.

Our failed version did almost the opposite: category → abstraction → architecture
→ terminology → eventual example. That’s why it feels like homework.

  Thinking
  ●
       Reframing the redesign
       I’m recognizing that the earlier result missed the brief: it felt generic, borrowed, and
       visually weak. I’m resetting around a clear editorial art direction, stronger hierarchy,
       sharper copy, and a more deliberate step-by-step build.
  ●
       Comparing product storytelling
       I’m studying how strong product sites turn complex ideas into simple visual narratives:
       one memorable promise, concrete everyday scenarios, product UI in context, and a
       clear progression from problem to payoff.
  ●
       Reframed the redesign and compared product storytelling

  🌐 Searching the web
         granola.ai   ycombinator.com    help.limitless.ai   mem0.ai   limitless.ai

  ●
       Designing Alice’s narrative
       I’m replacing jargon-first sections with a demo-first story: show one real question,
       reveal how Alice uses context, model, memory, and goals, then demonstrate an
       evolving answer over time.
  ●
       Designed Alice’s narrative
  ●
       Searched 9 websites

  ✓ Worked for 1m 19s


Yeah. I would throw away most of the current homepage structure.
The previous version makes the visitor learn our vocabulary before they
understand the product. “Cognitive trace,” “mission graph,” “continuity of
judgment,” “epistemic memory,” “source/host/self” - those concepts are useful after
the visitor already gets A.L.I.C.E. Up front, they read like a research paper.

                              🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                       274 / 456
The strongest current AI sites do the opposite. Pally starts with the everyday problem
of information being scattered in “loose threads,” then visually brings those threads
together. (Pally) Rowboat puts a clickable product snapshot almost immediately on the
page. (Rowboat Labs) Oki shows specific actions and real-looking UI before explaining
its system. (Oki Home) Pickle uses almost one simple sentence per screen plus
concrete life scenarios. (Pickle) Granola makes its entire product understandable
through “before / during / after” and actual product UI. (Granola)

New rule for our website
The homepage should answer, in order:
What does Alice do? → Show me. → How did she do that? → Why does that
get better over time? → What makes Alice structurally different? → What are
you actually building today?
Not:
What category is this? → architecture → terminology → philosophy →
eventually an example.
And I think we can make the site far more visually interesting at the same time.


The new concept: Decision Replay
This is the strongest idea I found.
The entire homepage follows one person through one real decision over
several years.
Not ten unrelated feature sections.
One story.
The page effectively becomes an interactive short film demonstrating how Alice
works.

Opening screen
Almost no explanation.
A large, beautifully animated A.L.I.C.E. conversation floats in the middle.
Small above it:
2026

                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                          275 / 456
The user asks:

  Should I take this research opportunity?

ALICE responds:

  Yes. I think you should.

Then underneath:
Why?
The visitor can click it.
That's the first interaction.
No “Personal Cognitive System.”
No Mission Graph.
No provenance.
No cognitive architecture.
Just:

**A.L.I.C.E. gives advice.
But the interesting part is what happens after.**
Scroll.


Scene 1 - What did Alice look at?
The conversation stays pinned on the right.
On the left, pieces of the person's actual situation slide in one at a time:

  Current workload
  2 active projects

  Long-term goal
  Build research experience

  Finances


                             🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                     276 / 456
  Stable for this semester

  Previous experience
  Handled one comparable project well

  Deadline collision
  None


Simple heading:

Alice doesn't answer from the question alone.
Then:

  She looks for the parts of your history and current life that actually matter to the
  decision.

Nothing more.
Visually, each piece physically flies into the response.
This borrows the concrete-context-first trick that Oki uses when it shows a lease
search with the PDF and iMessage sources alongside the answer, rather than
explaining retrieval infrastructure. (Oki Home)


Scene 2 - But how does Alice know what matters?
Now we reveal goals.
Not “Mission Graph” yet.
Headline:

Because she knows what you're trying to do.
The page zooms outward.
What looked like one decision becomes part of:

                              Become a researcher
                                     │
                       ┌─────────────┴─────────────┐
                       │                           │


                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                            277 / 456
             Build experience              Graduate study
                     │                          │
            ┌───────┴────────┐                  │
        Research role    Open source         Finances
              │
       THIS DECISION


Then one sentence:

  Your questions aren't separate. They can belong to the same larger plan.

Only after the visitor understands this visually do we introduce the term:

  We call this the Mission Graph.

That's the right use of terminology.
Experience first. Name second.


Scene 3 - Why should you trust what she
remembers?
A past-project card appears.
Then ALICE displays:

  “Previous research workload was manageable.”

  SOURCE
  Project journal · March-June 2026

  TYPE
  Observed outcome

  CONFIDENCE
  High


Then beside it:

  “You probably work well with two
  large projects at once.”

                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                      278 / 456
  TYPE
  Inference

  CONFIDENCE
  Medium


And they look visibly different.
Headline:

A memory and a guess are not the same thing.
Subheading:

  Alice keeps track of where information came from, what was observed, what was
  inferred, and what later changed.

That's it.
No “epistemic architecture.”
The visitor has now understood it.
This is where Oki's source-backed UI gives us a useful design lesson, while ALICE can
take the concept further into evidence/inference/correction boundaries. (Oki Home)


Scene 4 - Alice makes the decision
Everything converges.
The screen becomes:

  RECOMMENDATION

  Take the opportunity.



  WHY

  ✓ Supports your research goal
  ✓ No major deadline collision
  ✓ Comparable workload succeeded before

                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                          279 / 456
  RISK

  ! My workload estimate is uncertain



  CONFIDENCE
  78%


This should feel beautiful and decisive.
Not like an admin dashboard.
Maybe the entire background darkens and everything except the recommendation
disappears.
Visitor gets the first complete loop:
question → context → goal → evidence → judgment.


Scene 5 - Now reality enters
This is where ALICE starts becoming different.
Time jumps forward.

Three months later
The visitor sees the results happen as little events:

  Accepted research position             ✓

  Research result completed              ✓

  Time spent vs estimated               +37%

  Another project deadline missed        ✕

  Stress/workload higher than expected


No AI message yet.
Just reality.


                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                      280 / 456
Then:

Most assistants stop at the recommendation.
Scroll.

Alice keeps the result.
That's much easier to understand than “Experience Ledger.”
Then visually show:

  ALICE EXPECTED

  Workload manageable
       78%

           ↓ REALITY

  Workload underestimated

           ↓

  ASSUMPTION REVISED
  78% → 42%


Now the visitor understands learning from outcomes without us saying it.


Scene 6 - Ask again
Time jumps.


2029
Same interface.
Same person.
Same question:

  Should I take this research opportunity?



                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                  281 / 456
ALICE:

  No. Not right now.

Big reaction moment.
Then:
Why did your answer change?
Click.
Alice shows:

  Your current priority is different.

  The previous two parallel commitments
  both exceeded their workload estimates.

  The research benefit is real,
  but it conflicts with a higher-priority mission.

  My previous workload assumption was wrong.


Then one large sentence fills the screen:

**Alice doesn't just remember the past.
The past changes her next judgment.**
That is far more understandable than our previous hero.
And we don't need to use HEBB's “what happens next” / “outcome-tested learning”
language.
HEBB can own those phrases.
Our demonstration owns the idea through the actual behavior.


Scene 7 - Now explain what Alice actually is
Only now do we reveal architecture.
The visitor already understands the product.


                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                       282 / 456
Heading:

So what is A.L.I.C.E.?
Then build her onscreen piece by piece.
Not a giant architecture chart.

1. She starts somewhere.
Personality Foundation

  A.L.I.C.E. begins from an evidence-grounded source personality rather than a blank
  generic assistant persona.

Visual:

  SOURCE EVIDENCE
        ↓
  PERSONALITY FOUNDATION


Then a small example:

  Observed behavior        verified
  Likely preference        hypothesis
  Synthetic scenario       test material


And:

  Generated reconstructions never become fake historical memories.

This explains the personality-completion work we're currently doing.


2. She learns who she is helping.
Host Model
For flagship A.L.I.C.E.:

  ELAINA
  personality foundation

                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                         283 / 456
          ≠

 RAYAN
 host model


One sentence:

  The person A.L.I.C.E. comes from and the person she serves can be different
  people.

This is actually weird and memorable.
We should embrace it.


3. She develops her own history.
A.L.I.C.E. Self
Show a third layer emerging:

 SOURCE PERSON
       │
       ▼
    A.L.I.C.E.
       │
       ├──── HOST
       │
       ▼
 OWN EXPERIENCES


Then:

  What the source person believed, what the host believes, and what A.L.I.C.E. later
  comes to believe do not have to become the same thing.

That communicates the architecture better than ALICE_CONTINUITY ever will on a
homepage.
Then small technical label for people who care:


                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                           284 / 456
ALICE_CONTINUITY / SELF MODEL


Scene 8 - Then reveal the whole machine
Now we're allowed one architecture visual.
But extremely simple.

                    A.L.I.C.E.

        Who am I?          Who are you?
        Identity              Host
            │                  │
            └───────┬────────┘
                     │
              What matters now?
                  Missions
                     │
                What happened?
            Memory + Experience
                     │
                 What do I think?
                  Judgment
                     │
                 What should I do?
            Models + Tools
                     │
                 What happened?
                  Outcome
                     │
                     └────────────↺


The labels are normal English.
Hovering reveals technical names:
Mission Graph
Experience Fabric
Claim Fabric
Memory Formation

etc.

                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter   285 / 456
Progressive disclosure.
Regular visitor sees:
What happened?
Engineer hovers and sees:
Experience Fabric / Claim Fabric.
Now the site serves both audiences.


Scene 9 - Swapping models
Then another visually dramatic section.
A.L.I.C.E. is represented as the complete structure we've just assembled.
At its center:
Reasoning engine: Model A

Click.
It morphs to:
Model B

Then:
Model C

Nothing surrounding it changes.
Headline:

**The model is a part of Alice.
It isn't Alice.**
That is much clearer than:

  “The model can change. The continuity does not.”

The latter is a nice secondary line. The former explains it.


Scene 10 - Where Fable Sleight fits
Then we zoom out.

                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                    286 / 456
                     A.L.I.C.E.
              flagship research system
                         │
                 proven capability
                         │
                         ▼
                   FABLE SLEIGHT
                         │
              ┌──────────┼──────────┐
              ▼          ▼           ▼
            Alex's     Maya's      Jordan's
            system     system       system


Headline:

**A.L.I.C.E. is one intelligence.
Fable Sleight is how other people get their own.**
Then:

  Fable Sleight receives the capabilities that survive A.L.I.C.E.'s research and
  evaluation - never A.L.I.C.E.'s private memories, personality, or relationship state.

This is vastly clearer than our old A.L.I.C.E. → implementation → evaluation → host
neutral → Fable Sleight diagram.


Scene 11 - Where are we today?
Very clean ending.

We're still building it.
Then a visual progress path:

  FOUNDATIONS               ✓

  MEMORY SUBSTRATE          ← NOW
  Stage G




                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                             287 / 456
  INTELLIGENT RECALL
  Stage G+

  MEMORY FORMATION

  COGNITIVE MODELS

  AGENCY

  PERSONAL LEARNING


Clicking a stage expands what it means.
For G+:

  We are testing different ways for Alice to decide which old experiences matter to
  the present moment.

Then perhaps:
Mem0-inspired hybrid retrieval
temporal/graph retrieval
associative recall
mission-aware salience
all labeled:
CANDIDATE - NOT YET CANONICAL

So we can absolutely show the updated plan without lying about the architecture.


And now the visual design needs to become much
more ambitious
The current site is mostly:
cream background + text + boxes.
That is part of why it feels dead.
I want the next homepage to behave more like an interactive product film.
One visual scene stays pinned while the story evolves around it.
Something like:

                              🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                        288 / 456
  ┌────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
  │                                                            │
  │                     ALICE VISUAL WORLD                     │
  │                                                            │
  │      cards / conversation / decisions / missions           │
  │      physically transform as the user scrolls              │
  │                                                            │
  │                                                            │
  ├───────────────────────────────┬────────────────────────────┤
  │                               │                            │
  │ simple explanation            │ active evidence / UI       │
  │ 1-2 sentences max             │                            │
  │                               │                            │
  └───────────────────────────────┴────────────────────────────┘


The website itself becomes the explanation.


Three visual directions worth exploring
And I think we should generate genuinely different ideas this time rather than three
shades of minimal SaaS.

A - Decision Replay
My strongest choice
Visual language: cinematic product interface.
The site feels like scrubbing through a recorded decision.
Dates advance.
Evidence enters.
Assumptions update.
Decisions change.
The same central scene evolves for the entire page.
Think:
product demo + film timeline + interactive investigation.
Why I like it:


                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                         289 / 456
It is uniquely suited to what ALICE does.
No competitor's homepage currently tells its entire story through the history of one
decision.


B - The Living Casefile
Much more unusual visually.
Imagine a beautiful physical research dossier:

  photograph
  calendar entry
  decision memo
  message
  project result
  prediction
  correction
  map
  relationship


Documents slide onto a huge desk/canvas.
Threads connect them.
ALICE highlights the few that matter.
A recommendation card gets stamped.
Months later, an outcome document lands on top.
Alice crosses out an assumption and writes a revised one.
It would feel like:
intelligence analyst + personal journal + scientific lab notebook.
Warm paper textures.
Real handwriting-style annotations used sparingly.
High-quality typography.
Almost zero traditional SaaS UI.
This would be very distinctive.
The danger is making it look too retro/editorial.

                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                           290 / 456
C - The Cognitive Stage
The most futuristic option.
Dark environment.
The visitor's question appears alone in the center.
Then contextual objects appear around it:

  career goal
  previous decision
  person
  deadline
  constraint
  memory


Some objects dim because they're irrelevant.
Others move toward the center.
Connections appear.
ALICE forms the recommendation.
Then the entire structure changes as outcomes arrive.
It would feel almost like watching cognition happen.
Not a glowing brain.
Not particles for decoration.
Every visual object corresponds to an actual piece of state.
This can be spectacular if executed well.
But it is harder to make intuitive than Decision Replay.


We can even combine A + B
This may be the winner:


Decision Replay structure
with


                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter       291 / 456
Living Casefile art direction
Meaning:
The page follows one decision over years, but the information appears as beautiful
evidence artifacts rather than bland cards.
Example:

 ┌ Research Offer ─────────────────┐
 │ ML Systems Lab                  │
 │ Start: September 3              │
 └─────────────────────────────────┘

                ╲

           ┌ Current Goals ──────┐
           │ Research depth      │
           │ ████████████ 82%    │
           └─────────────────────┘

                           ╲

                    ┌ Past Outcome ────────┐
                    │ Project Delta        │
                    │ workload: manageable │
                    └──────────────────────┘


Alice physically assembles the case.
That's memorable.


The copy rule also needs to change
Every homepage section gets:


One idea.
One sentence.
One demonstration.
For example:

                               🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                     292 / 456
Bad:

  “A.L.I.C.E. maintains a provenance-aware temporal cognitive substrate for evidence-
  driven longitudinal judgment.”

Gone.
Good:

A memory and a guess are not the same thing.
Then show them.


Bad:

  “The Mission Graph preserves long-running owner objectives and typed cross-link
  dependencies.”

Gone.
Good:

Your questions can belong to the same plan.
Then show them connecting.


Bad:

  “The Experience Ledger maintains outcome-linked longitudinal state.”

Gone.
Good:

Alice remembers whether the advice worked.
Then show the outcome.


Bad:


                         🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                           293 / 456
  “Model-independent identity architecture.”

Gone.
Good:

The model isn't Alice.
Then swap it.


That should be our writing standard everywhere.


What I would salvage from the old site
Very little of the front-end implementation.
Keep the factual/research work underneath it.
Keep:

    source / host / self distinction;
    outcome-driven judgment;
    Mission Graph;
    provenance;
    model independence;
    Stage G/G+ roadmap;
    Fable Sleight relationship.

But redesign the entire way we reveal them.
The site should make someone say:

  “Ohhh. I get it.”

before they ever encounter words like Mission Graph .
And after someone reads the entire homepage, they should be able to explain ALICE
to another person in plain English:



                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                      294 / 456
  Alice is an AI that keeps track of what you're trying to accomplish,
  remembers why decisions were made, watches how those decisions turn
  out, and uses that history to make better judgments later. It also has its
  own persistent identity rather than being whichever model happens to
  answer the prompt.

Then, after they understand that, we reveal the much deeper source-person/host/self
architecture.
That's the new standard.
I would build the next version around Decision Replay + Living Casefile, with the
homepage behaving like one continuous interactive story rather than a stack of
explanatory sections.


  Sources

  Pally | The AI personal assistant you text pally.com

  Rowboat - Your AI coworker, with memory rowboatlabs.com

  Oki Home — Your AI, locally. okihome.ai

  Pickle pickle.com

  Granola — The AI Notepad for back-to-back meetings granola.ai

8/28/2026, 5:21:30 PM




                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                        295 / 456
                           @Web search i think we should make it like a comic.
                           (specially iron man comic when he was making jarvis.
                           cause being honest, if alice actually works the way we
                           planning it to, its basically jarvis. and people know iron
                           man, and people know jarvis. so that the easiest way to
                           connect our product with the audience. do a deep
                           research on this idea.

                           lets make the comic style homepage first, then we can
                           make other pages and figure those pages out.

                           in comic you can follow a story like: a boy was living his
                           life and having many issues and deeply felt he needs a
                           companion who understands him (as you know people
                           say you are your best friend, so they imagine what if
                           there was another me who would understand me and
                           assist me with intelligence i dont have). then he get
                           idea to use alice. he starts learning about alice. then he
                           makes alice from his memory and then bla bla bla (use
                           our entire alice atchitecture here and show every
                           feature of alice through this story).

                           first outline and write the story. then figure out the
                           comic visuals. then make the home page. its a long and
                           complex task. so take your time 1 hour 2 hour doesnt
                           matter. then make the best comic you even made or
                           read in your existance
                                                                     8/28/2026, 5:32:13 PM




I like the direction, with one important constraint: we should borrow the audience
shortcut (“this is the kind of thing people imagine when they think JARVIS”)
without making the site look like Marvel fan art. I’m researching both the
storytelling mechanics and the IP/branding risk, then I’ll turn ALICE’s actual
architecture into one continuous original comic narrative and build the homepage
around it.


                        🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                296 / 456
The research also gives us a useful correction to the Iron Man analogy. The cultural
shorthand is absolutely useful, but the public site should never say or depict
“Iron Man/JARVIS.” Marvel’s own canon has multiple distinct AI patterns: J.A.R.V.I.S.,
Friday, a Tony Stark AI carrying his intelligence/personality, and even Riri Williams’
N.A.T.A.L.I.E., which was modeled on her late friend. That last one is surprisingly close
to one part of ALICE’s source-person reconstruction idea.
So internally the brief can be “make people feel the JARVIS dream.” Publicly, we make
an original tech-comic universe that explains ALICE on its own terms.
I’ve got the core story now, and there’s a twist that makes it much stronger than “boy
builds another him”: he starts by wanting another version of himself, then
realizes a mirror would reproduce his blind spots. So he builds ALICE as a
distinct intelligence with a personality foundation, while ALICE learns him separately
as her host. That single story beat explains our source-person ≠ host ≠ self
architecture in plain English—and distinguishes us from the “digital twin” companies
before we ever name them.

  Thinking
  ●
      Planning the comic homepage
      I’m treating this as an original superhero-tech homepage inspired by comic-book
      conventions, not copying protected characters or artwork. I’ll map the narrative,
      visuals, and interaction flow before building the design.
  ●
      Planned the comic homepage

  🌐 Searching the web
       scrollytelling.ai     chrislemke.github.io   reallygooddesigns.com   thatworksmedia.com

       shorthand.com         vev.design    grahaphics.com    webflow.com    designrush.com

       a1.gallery     airandember.com        carolinebeavon.com   ycombinator.com    mockplus.com

       behance.net         onepagelove.com

  ●
      Clarifying the story
      I’m shaping Kai’s journey around companionship without making ALICE a copy of him.
      Kai creates a distinct intelligence from meaningful memories, while ALICE learns his
      context, values, and evolving story as a true companion.
  ●
      Clarified the story



                                 🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                   297 / 456
   ●
       Searched 16 websites

  🌐 Inspecting project files for website build
   ●
       Inspected project files and old website code for reuse

  🌐 Searching the web
        thatworksmedia.com     scrollytelling.ai   scrollay.com   vev.design   esy.com

        chrislemke.github.io   carolinebeavon.com

   ●
       Searched 7 websites

  🌐 Checking Browser Automation Availability
   ●
       Checked browser automation availability

  🌐 Creating Alice comic homepage assets
   ●
       Created and styled A.L.I.C.E. comic homepage with interactive assets

  🌐 Starting Background QA Web Server
   ●
       Rendered and validated responsive comic homepage, fixed mobile
       speech overlap, and repackaged assets

  ✓ Worked for 11m 5s


Yes. The comic idea is much stronger than the previous design. After
researching it properly, I think it solves the exact problem we were fighting: ALICE is
too complicated to understand from architecture-first marketing copy, but it becomes
intuitive when the visitor watches one person discover why they need it and then
watches ALICE get built around that problem.
There is also an interesting Marvel connection beyond the obvious movie JARVIS
analogy. Marvel's own canon includes J.A.R.V.I.S., Friday, an AI copy of Tony Stark
carrying his intelligence/personality, and Riri Williams' N.A.T.A.L.I.E., which Marvel says
was modeled on the mannerisms and appearance of Riri's late friend. (Marvel) That
makes the cultural analogy surprisingly close to parts of ALICE-but it also makes it
more important that the public site never looks like Marvel fan art and never
calls ALICE “JARVIS.” Even “Friday” is literally already an Iron Man AI in Marvel



                               🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                             298 / 456
canon, another reason keeping Friday internal and using Fable Sleight publicly is the
right call. (Marvel)
The internal creative brief can absolutely be:

  Make people feel the dream they associate with JARVIS. Build a
  completely original universe to explain ALICE.

Why the comic format works
The best scrollytelling sites reveal information one beat at a time, letting the reader
control the pace instead of dumping the entire system onto them. Webflow specifically
highlights scrollytelling's ability to simplify complex information by showing only
what's needed at each stage. (Webflow) A recent 2026 graphic-novel scrollytelling
project used professional comic illustration, scroll-triggered animation, separate color
worlds for different emotional chapters, and progressive reveals to make complicated
subject matter accessible. (That Works Media)
That lines up perfectly with what our competitor research taught us. Pally starts with
the concrete “loose threads everywhere” problem rather than architecture. (Pally)
Rowboat lets visitors experience a product snapshot before explaining its internals.
(Rowboat Labs) Oki explains itself through tangible Memory → Intelligence → Action
examples instead of system diagrams. (Oki Home)
So our rule is now:

  Story first. Behavior second. Technical name third. Architecture last.


The story I wrote
The fictional protagonist is Ari, a young builder. He's deliberately not you, so the
homepage explains the real ALICE architecture without turning your personal history
into marketing material.
The strongest narrative discovery is this:

Ari initially wants “another me.”
Then he realizes:



                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                             299 / 456
  A copy of me would have the same blind spots.

So instead, he decides he needs another mind beside his-one that understands his
life but can still have a distinct point of view.
That one story turn explains why ALICE is fundamentally different from the “digital
twin” category.

Chapter                          Comic event                      What the visitor learns

Cover - The Second Mind          Ari is drowning in AI chats,     Today's intelligence is
                                 projects and deadlines.          fragmented across prompts.

01 - The Problem                 He imagines another version      ALICE isn't merely a digital
                                 of himself, then realizes a      twin.
                                 mirror repeats his
                                 weaknesses.

02 - Give Her a Point of         He constructs a personality      Source evidence, hypotheses
View                             foundation from real source      and synthetic practice are
                                 evidence.                        different things.

03 - Hello, Alice                Alice activates and says she     SOURCE ≠ HOST ≠ SELF.
                                 knows where she came from,
                                 who her host is, and that she
                                 isn't her source.

04 - Now Learn Me                Alice learns Ari's projects,     Host Model + Relationship
                                 people, goals, routines and      Model.
                                 constraints.

05 - The Question Behind         Ari asks about an internship.    Mission Graph, explained
the Question                     Alice realizes it's really a     without jargon first.
                                 career-direction question
                                 conflicting with research.

06 - A Lifetime Doesn't Fit      Hundreds of memories             Durable memory vs intelligent
in a Prompt                      appear; only a few light up.     recollection. Stage G → G+.

07 - The Engine Isn't the        Local, frontier and specialist   Models are replaceable
Person                           models orbit Alice.              reasoning engines, not Alice
                                                                  herself.



                              🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                      300 / 456
Chapter                        Comic event                      What the visitor learns

08 - The First Time She Says Ari asks to start another          Independent judgment + owner
No                           project. Alice refuses to          sovereignty.
                             recommend it.

09 - Reality Gets a Vote       Ari overrides her. Reality       Experience Ledger and
                               proves some assumptions          outcome-linked correction.
                               wrong.

10 - Years Later               Alice has changed without        ALICE_CONTINUITY / Self Model.
                               rewriting her origin.

11 - The Pages We Haven't      Comic becomes an unfinished      World/self/social models,
Built Yet                      blueprint.                       consolidation, agency and
                                                                personal learning are clearly
                                                                planned, not falsely claimed.

12 - One Alice. Many           Proven capability travels from   Productization without
Futures.                       ALICE into Fable Sleight.        transferring ALICE's private
                                                                identity/state.

Finale - Still Becoming        Ari asks whether she's a clone, Alice: “Still becoming.”
                               assistant or model.


And the final explanation only appears after the visitor has experienced all of that:

  A.L.I.C.E. is being built as an intelligence with a persistent identity, a
  separate understanding of its host, long-running goals, evidence-aware
  memory, replaceable reasoning engines, and a history of decisions and
  outcomes that can change future judgment.

That sentence was incomprehensible on the old homepage.
After reading the comic, it should feel obvious.


The visual system
I didn't make it “Iron Man with the serial numbers filed off.”
It's an original tech graphic-novel universe.
The homepage is titled:

                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                     301 / 456
A.L.I.C.E. / ISSUE 00
THE SECOND MIND
The color language changes as the story changes.
The opening is dark navy/black with chaotic screens, red alerts and yellow comic
effects.
The personality-construction sequence becomes a cyan engineering blueprint.
Alice's activation moves into deep blue/violet with an original luminous A.L.I.C.E.
cognitive glyph rather than a robot woman or holographic Marvel assistant.
The Mission Graph chapter becomes bright yellow-like a dramatic comic reveal.
Conflict/judgment turns orange/red.
Outcome-learning becomes measurement-oriented.
The future roadmap literally looks like unfinished comic blueprints stamped
PLANNED / RESEARCH ROADMAP .

Fable Sleight opens everything into cool blue and shows multiple independent future
systems.
The digital-comic research also reinforced the importance of giving each beat room.
Vertical comics work particularly well when one major beat occupies a screen and
whitespace/gutters control dramatic pacing. (Comistitch)


Technical terms are now optional
This is another major change.
The visitor sees:

  Your questions can belong to the same plan.

They watch internship + research + graduate study + finances physically connect.
Only then:

  We call this the Mission Graph.

Likewise:

                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                               302 / 456
  A memory and a guess are not the same thing.

Then they see:
OBSERVED
versus
INFERENCE
Only engineers who want more can open:
UNDER THE HOOD
and see things like:
SOURCE_HISTORY
SOURCE_PERSON_MODEL
RECONSTRUCTION_INFERENCE

That is how we avoid making the homepage hurt to read.


Stage G/G+ fits naturally into the comic
The memory scene literally says:


NOW - STAGE G
Make the past durable.

  Can old experience remain recoverable, correctable, attributable and safe even
  after years of change?

Then:


NEXT - G+
Teach Alice when the past matters.

  Which memories should surface for this moment? How far should retrieval search?
  When should she deliberately recollect?




                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                           303 / 456
That matches the current handoff: finish G first, record the long-horizon recall
baseline, then implement G+ as the dedicated memory-cognition qualification stage.
 ALICE_STAGE_G_GPLUS_MEMORY_ARCHITECTURE_HANDOFF_2026-08-23(3).md And G+ remains
explicitly bounded to intelligent memory attention/recollection rather than silently
becoming Phase 8/9/10. ALICE_STAGE_G_GPLUS_MEMORY_ARCHITECTURE_HANDOFF_2026-08-
23(3).md

So the comic shows our updated competitor-informed plan without pretending the
G+ winner already exists.


I built the homepage
This is a completely new project rather than a modification of the garbage v0.1
homepage.


Download
Download A.L.I.C.E. Comic Homepage v0.2

The actual story/script
Read the full comic storyboard


Visual/art-direction specification
Read the comic design notes


Raw homepage
index.html


Previews
Desktop - comic cover
Desktop - Mission Graph reveal
Desktop - Alice disagrees
Desktop - ALICE → Fable Sleight
Mobile - comic cover


                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                           304 / 456
Mobile - disagreement scene


Running it
Unzip it and double-click:

    START_SITE.bat


Then it opens:

    http://localhost:8080


Or:

    Set-Location "PATH\TO\alice-comic-homepage-v0.2"
    .\serve.ps1


I also actually rendered this version rather than just linting it.
Desktop render:
1440px wide
Mobile render:
390px wide
Mobile horizontal overflow:
none - 390px document width on a 390px viewport
JavaScript console/page errors during the render:
0
I caught and fixed two visual issues during QA: inherited white text initially made
ordinary speech balloons blank on dark chapters, and the first mobile cover was
clipping THE SECOND MIND . Both are corrected in the ZIP above.
The animations also honor prefers-reduced-motion , which matters for a page this
motion-heavy; MDN recommends reducing nonessential motion when users request it.
(MDN Web Docs)


And I think we've finally found the right medium for the homepage.


                             🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                            305 / 456
The old site tried to describe ALICE.
This one tries to make someone meet ALICE.
That's a much better foundation for the company.


  Sources

  https://webflow.com/blog/scrollytelling-guide webflow.com

  https://thatworksmedia.com/en/portfolio/case-study-              thatworksmedia.com
  scrollytelling-graphic-novel-website/

  https://pally.com/ pally.com

  https://www.rowboatlabs.com/ rowboatlabs.com

  https://okihome.ai/ okihome.ai

  https://comistitch.com/blog/webtoon-vertical-scroll-paneling-guide/ comistitch.com

  https://developer.mozilla.org/en-                                developer.mozilla.org
  US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/At-rules/%40media/prefers-
  reduced-motion

8/28/2026, 5:32:22 PM




                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                             306 / 456
  @Web search good start. but i think we gotta go more
  in depth with the story. like take it slow. make a good
  foundation of the story first, then gradually progress
  through the story. Also, there's so many features alice
  will have that we agreed on. we can show some of
  them (read the docs in alice repo).

  the story can start like this: a boy going through his
  day to day like and solving different task and problem
  he is having. He is interacting with different people to
  do that. he is using different agents to do his tasks. But
  no one really understands him. the people dont
  understand what he actually wants, they are not his
  friends. The aagents treat each task separately, they
  cant fathom the bigger picture (take more time in
  detailing this part cause we gotta show the problems
  cleanly so that people start wanting the solution for it.
  and the solution is alice).

  So, he wonders, what if there was another me. A clone
  of me who understands me, who will be my friend, who
  behave in ways i want and understand. Then he realize
  just a clone will have the same defect as he does, so he
  updates his wish and want a clone of him that is
  extremely smart and helps him with all his problems.

  then he meets alice. (show their initial phases, the way
  alice was born. basically our entire architecture plan).

  then the boy starts interacting with alice, in different
  topics that require different features and skills. and he
  continue to do that 1 year, 5 year, 10 year, 20 year
  (show the memory retrieval here). the stories will show
  different features of alice. alice will notice what Ari isnt.
  Alice will disagree and propose better idea, alice will
  serve Ari even when Ari doesnt ask it to, Alice will
  surprise Ari.

  And then finally we can show, now Ari is old. Alice is

🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                307 / 456
                             still alice. but alice has the whole life of Ari. Ari is
                             thanking Alice for being his companion. And then a
                             happy ending.


                             This is my rough idea on how it should be. I see you
                             added a lot of technical details. Dont do that. Keep the
                             conic only like a comic with story only so that non
                             technical people can understand. I feel the comic
                             gonna be at least 50-60 page big if we show all distinct
                             and unique things alice got that we need to market to
                             make it top our competitors.

                             the first draft was good. so take your time. and make
                             the comic.. take long long time. slow and steady
                                                                         8/28/2026, 6:06:53 PM




I’m going to slow this down exactly the way you’re asking: first build the emotional
problem so the reader genuinely wants Alice before Alice ever appears, then
let her emerge gradually and prove herself over years of Ari’s life. I’m also going
through the current ALICE repo for every capability that is distinctive enough to
deserve a story beat, but I’ll translate each one into ordinary human situations—no
architecture jargon in the comic itself.
I’ve got the feature inventory now. The repo gives us far more story material than the
first comic used: not just memory and disagreement, but research, planning, source-
checking, tool use, voice, multimodal perception, learning routines, belief correction,
social understanding, proactive missions, computer use, coding, scientific problem-
solving, personal model adaptation, cross-device continuity, privacy/ownership,
rollback, and eventually physical-world action.
The key is not to make 60 pages of feature demos. I’m structuring them as Ari’s
life: first we make the loneliness/frustration real; then Alice is born; then each
capability appears only because Ari encounters a believable life problem that needs it.
The emotional spine is locked now: Ari does not meet Alice until roughly the first
third of the homepage. That is intentional. We spend enough time watching people
and task-agents each help with one fragment—and watching Ari suffer from having to

                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                  308 / 456
be the only thing holding the fragments together—that Alice feels like an answer the
reader was already asking for.
After she appears, the comic stops “listing features.” Each capability gets introduced
as a consequence of a real moment in Ari’s life: she remembers something he forgot,
catches a conflict, admits she was wrong, uses a specialist tool, acts before he asks,
survives a model replacement, learns a repeated workflow, helps him through a hard
decision five years later, and eventually carries decades of shared history.

  Thinking
  ●
      Planning the comic
      I’m treating this as a substantial visual storytelling project: I’ll review the repository
      materials, shape the comedy and emotional arc, then build a coherent 50–60-page
      storyboard around Tater’s adventure.
  ●
      Planned the comic

  🌐 Searching the web
       pally.com     app.pally.com   rowboatlabs.com     litmemo.com        pally.ink

  ●
      Searched 5 websites
  ●
      Searched GitHub documentation for A.L.I.C.E. roadmap, architecture,
      research, and privacy models

  🌐 Searching the web
       marvel.com      thatworksmedia.com     stimpunks.org     kotobainteractive.com

       litmemo.com      omekas.prattsi.org   pbs.org    scrollytelling.ai    journals.sagepub.com

  ●
      Developing the story
      I’m combining repository guidance with visual research on tech comics and webtoon
      pacing. I’m shaping a long vertical experience with clear panels, recurring motifs,
      jokes, and an emotional payoff rather than a static wall of text.
  ●
      Building the experience
      I’m turning the outline into a working vertical comic homepage with roughly 60
      illustrated scenes, cinematic pacing, interactive page navigation, and a dark lab-
      inspired visual system centered on Tater’s transformation.
  ●
      Developed the story and built the experience



                              🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                         309 / 456
  ●
      Searched 9 websites

  🌐 Creating Alice Comic Storyboard Homepage
  ●
      Created Alice comic storyboard homepage and inspected its code

  🌐 Inspecting Existing Comic Assets
  ●
      Inspected comic assets and checked browser tools for website QA

  🌐 Creating Alice’s Long Comic Homepage
  ●
      Created Alice’s sophisticated comic homepage with assets and
      scripts

  🌐 Launching local server for screenshot testing
  ●
      Tested and validated comic homepage rendering with screenshots
      and PDF checks

  🌐 Creating comic homepage outline and design notes
  ●
      Created comic homepage, cover assets, image analysis, and
      prototype package

  ✓ Worked for 12m 49s


Yes - this is much closer to the version you described.
I went back through the current A.L.I.C.E. README, roadmap, identity/host-learning
architecture, permanent architecture, privacy model, and research-frontiers register
before rewriting it. The roadmap is much broader than the first comic suggested:
research, planning, multimodal perception, tool/computer use, procedural learning,
proactive agency, specialist agents, scientific reasoning, continual adaptation,
embodiment, self-evolution, metacognition, deletion, cross-device continuity, and
more are all part of the destination. The source-person/host/Alice-self separation and
relationship learning are also explicitly part of the architecture, so I made them central
to Alice's birth rather than a footnote.
I also changed the storytelling philosophy. Current vertical-comic/scrollytelling practice
supports letting the reader control the pace, using whitespace as the equivalent of
comic gutters, and revealing complexity gradually rather than putting six dense

                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                             310 / 456
panels on every screen. (That Works Media) And the better adjacent AI sites do
something similar at the product level: Pally first makes you feel the “loose threads”
problem, while Rowboat puts the actual experience before the detailed architecture.
(Pally)

The new story
It is now 64 full comic pages across eight acts, and Alice doesn't actually awaken
until Page 23.
That is the biggest improvement.
The reader spends the first third wanting her to exist.

    Act I - Nobody Sees the Whole, Pages 1-8. One ordinary day in Ari's life. His
    roommate, professor, family, resume AI, coding agent, research AI, and calendar
    agent are all individually helpful. But everybody sees a different Ari. Their
    individually sensible advice collides, and Ari realizes that he himself has become
    the integration layer holding his entire life together.
    Act II - The Wish, Pages 9-16. Ari imagines another version of himself. At first it
    sounds perfect: no explaining, perfect familiarity. Then both Aris procrastinate on
    the same email, rationalize the same bad ideas, and share the same blind spots.
    The wish changes from “another me” to “someone who knows me like me,
    without being trapped inside me.”
    Act III - Hello, Alice, Pages 17-24. We take Alice's birth slowly. Ari gives her
    history rather than a prompt. She learns that a memory, someone else's opinion,
    Ari's interpretation, and a guess are different things. She is allowed to say “I don't
    know.” Hypothetical situations become rehearsal without becoming fake
    memories. She learns Ari separately from the personality that shaped her. Ari
    keeps control over what she knows. Then: “Alice?” - “I am here.”
    Act IV - The First Months, Pages 25-32. Alice starts understanding what Ari is
    actually trying to accomplish. An internship question becomes a
    career/research/money question. She researches uncertain claims instead of
    dumping links. She borrows a coding specialist when needed. She reads an
    experiment screenshot and notices what Ari missed. She prepares actions but asks
    before anything leaves his world. Then comes the first important fight: Ari wants
    another project. Alice says no.


                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                              311 / 456
Act V - Year One, Pages 33-40. Ari ignores her. Reality produces a mixed result.
The project was valuable, but Alice was right about the timing. Instead of
declaring victory, they discover that both of them were partly wrong. Alice
preserves why the decision was made and uses the distinction months later. She
starts spotting patterns Ari cannot see from inside himself, asks permission before
using those patterns to challenge him, learns repeated workflows, tests
improvements before keeping them, and then survives her first major underlying-
model replacement without turning into “a different Alice.”
Act VI - Year Five, Pages 41-48. Now the long-term relationship starts paying
off. A five-year-old decision returns with its original context. Alice discovers an
opportunity Ari never asked her to find. She coordinates coding, research,
browser, and reasoning specialists while remaining the one intelligence Ari talks
to. She helps him repair a difficult human relationship instead of merely helping
him win an argument. Six-month missions survive dozens of separate
conversations. Plans change when reality changes. And Alice has learned when Ari
wants reassurance versus when he wants his decision attacked.
Act VII - Years Ten to Twenty, Pages 49-56. Alice follows Ari across devices.
She begins interacting with more of the physical world under explicit permission.
Ari asks her to forget something and she explains what can be removed and what
must be rebuilt. Her uncertainty becomes calibrated by years of being right and
wrong. She notices an unexplained scientific pattern, proposes a test, and tries to
disprove herself. She improves parts of herself through challenger testing and
rollback rather than blindly replacing them. Most importantly, as Ari's values
change, Alice stops optimizing for the person he used to be. At Year Twenty,
decades of history collapse into one relevant old note instead of a wall of retrieved
memories.
Act VIII - Year Forty, Pages 57-64. Ari's hair is gray. Alice's interface has
changed many times. Their tools, models, devices, work, and priorities have all
changed. She still notices the small ritual he does when nervous. She still
disagrees with him. Ari asks whether she is still a clone, an assistant, or something
else. They retrieve the line he wrote the night the project began: “Know me. But
do not become me.” Finally Ari thanks her-not for research, code, planning or
memory-but because she was there. The epilogue then opens into Fable Sleight:
the capability can spread to other people, but Ari's Alice does not.


                      🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                             312 / 456
That last distinction follows the repo's architecture directly: A.L.I.C.E. can develop its
own post-activation continuity while keeping inherited source history, its model of the
host, and their relationship distinguishable.


The ending now lands on this
  ARI: You helped with my work.
  ARI: You saved me from myself a few times.
  ARI: You were wrong plenty.
  ALICE: Documented.
  ARI: And you were there.

Later:

  ARI: Thank you. For understanding the parts I could not always explain.
  ALICE: You spent forty years explaining them.
  ARI: Not always with words.
  ALICE: I know.

That's the emotional destination I think this site needed.

The important change to the comic language
I removed the technical vocabulary from the public page.
I programmatically checked the generated homepage. It has zero occurrences of:
Mission Graph
Experience Ledger
Claim Fabric
Neo4j
Qdrant
SOURCE_PERSON_MODEL
RECONSTRUCTION_INFERENCE

And zero public occurrences of “Friday.”
The architecture terms still exist in a private story map so we can verify that we aren't
accidentally leaving out important ALICE capabilities. But a visitor never has to learn
them.



                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                              313 / 456
For example, the architecture says A.L.I.C.E. has an experience/learning plane,
memory and knowledge plane, cognitive executive, planning, capability fabric,
evolution laboratory, production execution, and more.
The comic translates those into:

  “Alice remembered why.”

  “That isn't really an internship question.”

  “I found something you didn't ask for.”

  “I can help. I think starting it tonight is a mistake.”

  “My previous estimate was wrong.”

  “Would you like to do this a twelfth time, or teach me the pattern?”

  “New engine.” - “Still you?”

  “Forget it.” - “I'll show you what I can remove.”

  “I think it is worth trying to prove me wrong.”

That's the standard now.

I also kept the Iron Man/JARVIS influence where it belongs
Internally: yes, the emotional target is absolutely the dream people recognize from
JARVIS - persistent, capable, trusted, context-rich intelligence that is part of someone's
life.
Publicly: original world.
That matters because Marvel itself has already explored several surprisingly adjacent
AI ideas: Tony created an AI carrying his intelligence and personality, and Marvel
describes N.A.T.A.L.I.E. as an AI modeled on Riri Williams' late friend. (Marvel) So
copying Marvel aesthetics or terminology would both weaken our own category
identity and create unnecessary IP baggage.


                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                            314 / 456
Our Ari, Alice visual identity, story, dialogue, iconography and comic universe are
original.

Files
Here's the whole new build:
Download A.L.I.C.E. Comic Homepage v0.3 - 64-page build
I strongly recommend reading the story document once before even judging the visual
implementation:
Full 64-page Storyboard
8-act Story Outline
Visual / comic direction
Internal ALICE capability-coverage map
Homepage source
Current cover-art preview
To run it:

  # unzip first, then double-click
  START_SITE.bat


or:

  python -m http.server 8080


then open http://localhost:8080 .
The build has 64 comic pages, eight act transitions, unique page IDs, no
missing local CSS/JS references, and no internal ALICE architecture
vocabulary leaking into the public story.
One thing I would not do next is start making Research/System/About pages.
First, read STORYBOARD.md as if this were a graphic novel script. If the emotional
story itself isn't excellent, no amount of animation or illustration will save it. Once the
story is locked, then we should give these 64 pages the really expensive visual pass-
more detailed environments, recurring objects, stronger facial acting, cinematic panel



                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                               315 / 456
composition, scroll transitions, and a few hero sequences with frame-by-frame
animation.
The research supports exactly that order: in a scrolling comic, narrative flow and
pacing matter even more because the reader doesn't get traditional page-turn control,
and whitespace itself becomes part of the storytelling grammar. (LitMemo)
This version is therefore intentionally story-first rather than “make every panel
gorgeous before we know whether the story works.”


  Sources

  https://thatworksmedia.com/en/portfolio/case-study-              thatworksmedia.com
  scrollytelling-graphic-novel-website/

  https://pally.com/ pally.com

  https://www.marvel.com/comics/guides/2500/every-major-a-i-in-the-        marvel.com
  marvel-universe

  https://litmemo.com/en/blog/webtoon-paneling litmemo.com

8/28/2026, 6:07:03 PM




                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                            316 / 456
  @Web search omg. i really loved it. good job. this
  comic gonna be the home page. Just one thing that as
  you see in the image: the text becomes invisible in
  some places. fix that.

  so the comic is home page. then we gotta plan the
  other pages. My idea is we gotta have a page that now
  technically describes the entire alice workflow, all the
  models it has, how they connect, (use the updated
  knowledges from the competing companies), what are
  the plans to execute them, the frontier researches and
  our plans for it. Basically explaining alice in technical
  terms (but dont name specific technology using neo4j
  or qdrant yet. cause we gotta wait for phase G+ to for
  those first.)

  Then another page detailing our progress till now and
  the future roadmap and workplan. (where we started,
  where we are, and where we want to be, a detailed
  graph)

  Then another page detailing all the features we
  planning for alice to have (e.g. coding, simulation,
  editing, etc)

  then another comparing page (this one is important)
  showing where alice starts with general and competing
  ai companies. how we are different and better and
  what problems they got and we solving (first in non
  technical term and then backing with technical details)


🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                             317 / 456
                                 there gotta be many more pages and ideas. this is just
                                 my rough idea. Now, first plan all the page contents,
                                 and then plan the visuals and then start making thme
                                 one by one (use mcp if needed). Also, use the name
                                 fable sleight, and in the comic use the name crissy
                                 instead of alice. (alice and friday names are for our
                                 understanding they dont need to be out public
                                                                            8/28/2026, 7:05:24 PM




Thinking
●
    Planning page updates
    I’m preparing a page-by-page content and visual plan, then I’ll begin implementing
    each page sequentially. I’m also checking the existing comic files and current
    documentation so the interface stays accurate and polished.
●
    Planned page updates

🌐 Inspecting speech bubble styling and project files
●
    Inspected speech bubble styles, homepage files, HTML, and external
    assets

🌐 Searching the web
     github.com    personal.ai

●
    Structuring site content
    I’m organizing the next pages around the origin-to-current timeline, capability atlas,
    careful competitor comparison, and frontier research programs. I’m keeping claims
    evidence-based and distinguishing current, planned, and exploratory work.
●
    Structured site content
●
    Searched 2 websites

🌐 Reading comic CSS for redesign
●
    Read comic CSS for redesign
●
    Reviewed Friday Product Vision Roadmap


                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                     318 / 456
  🌐 Building Fable Sleight system pages and navigation
   ●
       Built, tested, and packaged Fable Sleight system website assets

  🌐 Searching the web
        mem0.ai

   ●
       Designing the page system
       I’m shaping a narrative-led site with a comic homepage, blueprint-style architecture
       page, evidence-based capabilities atlas, careful comparisons, research frontiers, and
       practical entry points. I’ll use a restrained table and sequence implementation page by
       page.
   ●
       Designed the page system

  🌐 Searching the web
        personal.ai   docs.personal.ai   product-docs.personal.ai   github.com

        docs.praxis-ai.com

   ●
       Searched 1 website

  🌐 Packaging final website files and plans
   ●
       Packaged final website files and plans

  ✓ Worked for 7m 29s


Yes. This is the structure I think we should commit to.
First, the bug in your screenshot is fixed. On the dark comic chapters, the story
container changed its inherited text color to white, but the white/light-blue speech
bubbles were inheriting that same white text. I changed the base bubble style to
explicitly use dark ink, while dark caption boxes still explicitly use white. So the Ari
and Crissy dialogue should now remain readable regardless of the chapter
background.
I also did the public naming cleanup: Fable Sleight is now the site/product brand,
and Crissy is Ari's assistant inside the comic. The deployable site files now
contain no public Alice , A.L.I.C.E. , or Friday references.

The complete website architecture


                              🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                 319 / 456
I don't think this should become a conventional startup site with Home / Product /
Pricing / About . The homepage has established a much more interesting world, so
each page should feel like a different way of examining the same system.

Page                  What it explains         Visual language       Status

Home - The Second     Ari's entire lifetime    Interactive graphic   Built + fixed
Mind                  with Crissy. Makes a     novel
                      normal person
                      understand why this
                      should exist before
                      explaining technology.

System - How It       The complete             Engineering           Built v0.1 now
Works                 technical workflow:      cutaway / blueprint
                      identity, all learned
                      models, memory,
                      missions, retrieval,
                      reasoning, model
                      routing, tools,
                      learning, authority
                      and current research
                      directions.

Roadmap - The         Where the project        Mission-control       Next
Journey               started, everything      timeline +
                      completed, Stage         dependency map
                      G/G+,
                      migration/cutover,
                      and the full future
                      plan.

Capabilities - What   Every planned            Capability atlas,     Planned
It Can Become         capability: research,    concrete scenarios
                      coding, simulation,      rather than feature
                      planning, computer       cards
                      use, vision/audio,
                      science, learning,
                      proactive work,
                      devices, etc.




                         🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                320 / 456
Page                  What it explains          Visual language        Status

Compare - Why         General assistants        Interactive same-      Planned, high priority
Fable Sleight         and closest               situation
                      competitors. First        comparison +
                      understandable to         technical matrix
                      anyone, then backed
                      by architecture and
                      eventually benchmark
                      evidence.

Research - Frontier   The problems we           Constellation/fronti   Planned
Atlas                 openly admit aren't       er map
                      solved yet and how
                      we're going to
                      research them.

Trust - Your          Privacy, local custody,   Personal-data vault    Planned
Intelligence, Your    visible network           / boundary map
Authority             behavior, deletion,
                      rollback, permissions,
                      export, model
                      replacement.

Product - Fable       What the consumer         Multiple people's      Planned
Sleight               product actually is,      different personal
                      onboarding, user-         intelligences
                      named intelligences,
                      product forms and
                      evolution.

Lab - Evidence, Not   Benchmarks,               Research console /     Planned
Claims                experiments, failures,    laboratory
                      challenger                notebook
                      architectures, results,
                      releases, architecture
                      decisions.

About                 Company, principles,      Minimal editorial      Planned
                      founder/team,
                      contact, concise
                      company story.



                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                   321 / 456
I put the detailed version here:
Full page/content plan
And the visual rules for all ten pages are here:
Full visual-language plan


Why I like this structure
The pages won't all look like clones of one SaaS template.
The comic is emotional.
The System page is technical.
The Roadmap feels like a mission being executed.
The Capabilities page feels expansive.
The Compare page feels like an experiment.
The Research page feels like entering unexplored territory.
The Trust page feels controlled and inspectable.
But typography, signal colors, motion behavior and the Fable Sleight wordmark keep
everything in the same universe.
That is much stronger than making ten cream-colored pages with different text.
Current adjacent companies reinforce the idea that complicated AI products explain
best through strong, distinct information mechanics. Pally turns its entire problem into
“loose threads everywhere” and then shows those threads converging. (Pally)
Rowboat puts an interactive product snapshot before much of its technical explanation
and then decomposes the system into understandable surfaces. (Rowboat Labs) Oki
reduces a complex personal system to three visible behaviors-Memory, Intelligence,
Action-then backs them with inspectable sources and an action log. (Oki Home)
We're taking that principle without copying their design.


Page 2 is already started: System
I didn't just scaffold it. I built the first full version.
Open the new System page
Its opening idea is:

                              🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                        322 / 456
  One intelligence. Many systems underneath.

The comic asks visitors to suspend disbelief and experience Crissy.
The System page then opens her up.
It currently has 10 technical chapters.

01 - The complete cognitive loop
Instead of starting with databases:
Observe → Understand situation → Recall → Judge/Plan → Choose intelligence
→ Act → Verify → Learn
So an engineer can immediately see what binds the whole architecture together.


02 - The models that make one intelligence
It lays out separately:
Identity / Personality Model
Memory Formation Model
Host Model
Relationship Model
Self / Continuity Model
World + Causal Models
Social Model
Belief + Prediction Model
These correspond to the actual destination architecture rather than inventing a
simpler marketing architecture. The current repo explicitly separates
identity/personality, memory formation, host, relationship and self-continuity models,
with additional specialized world/retrieval/context components planned. The broader
roadmap adds world, causal, social, uncertainty and metacognitive systems in the
cognitive-core phase.
Crucially, it visually distinguishes:
foundation / active research / planned / future cognitive core.


                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                          323 / 456
So we're not claiming we built things we haven't.


03 - Memory
It shows the logical memory architecture without committing us to Neo4j, Qdrant or
any other specific backend:
Evidence & Experience
Current Claims
Episodes
Relationships & Graph
Semantic Retrieval
Working Context
Original Archive
And the visual makes a distinction I want to preserve permanently:

  Authoritative state ≠ derived indexes.

The current architecture already says physical engines are replaceable and that each
authority type has one declared canonical owner while other systems act as
projections, caches, replicas or indexes.
So the public architecture remains valid regardless of what wins G+.


04 - Intelligent recollection / G+
This is where I used all the competitor architecture research.
The visual takes a question like:

  “This opportunity feels familiar. Am I making the same mistake?”

and shows six possible ways history might be found:
Meaning
Exact words
Entities

                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                          324 / 456
Time
Relationships
Current missions
Then:

  Find → fuse → rerank → stop when enough evidence is present.

The page explicitly calls this candidate architecture, not canonical architecture.
That's important because current systems have each demonstrated useful pieces:
Mem0's current research architecture combines semantic, keyword and entity signals,
uses temporal reasoning and preserves history through ADD-only extraction. It reports
those mechanisms against LoCoMo, LongMemEval and BEAM rather than merely
asserting improvement. (Mem0)
Graphiti tracks when facts were true and when they changed, preserves superseded
history and combines vector, full-text and graph traversal. (Zep)
Hindsight separates world facts, experiences and consolidated observations; its recall
system runs semantic, BM25, graph and temporal retrieval, while reflect provides a
deeper reasoning path when ordinary recall is insufficient. (GitHub)
Sentience publicly separates working, episodic, semantic and procedural memory, and
is building contextual reranking, constructive recall, associative recall and executive
control. (Sentience)
Those aren't being silently copied into our architecture.
They're now visually labeled as things G+ should make compete.
That is exactly what we wanted.


05 - Learning
This section now introduces the two-speed architecture:


Fast path
Record the event.
Preserve provenance.

                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                              325 / 456
Form lightweight candidates.
Don't make Ari wait thirty seconds after every sentence.


Deep cycle
Later:
revisit experiences → reconcile outcomes → consolidate patterns → revise beliefs →
update host/self understanding → extract skills → create training candidates →
evaluate before promotion.
The important visual loop is:

  PLAN → PREDICT → ACT → OBSERVE → ATTRIBUTE → REVISE

with an explicit warning:

  A good result does not necessarily mean the reasoning was good.

That is a technical advantage we should push much harder later.


06 - Model and Tool Fabric
One central router chooses among:
Private/local reasoning
Frontier reasoning
Specialist systems
Formal solvers
Agent teams
based on:
privacy · competence · latency · cost · modality · measured reliability.
Then:

The engine can change.
Identity, memory, history and accountability remain outside it.


                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                        326 / 456
That's directly consistent with the existing model-independent architecture.


07 - Agency
Instead of writing “autonomous agent framework,” it shows an authority ladder:
Notice
→ Suggest
→ Prepare
→ Ask
→ Act
→ Verify
This is how I think we should eventually explain autonomy everywhere.
Crissy being smart enough to act and Crissy being allowed to act are separate
questions.


08 - Ownership
This is intentionally not four shield icons.
The user's personal state sits in the center.
Around it:
Inspect
Correct
Delete
Export
Roll back
Pause
And then the technical principles underneath:
visible egress, replaceable models, deletion lineage, rollback.
The consumer-product architecture already treats deeper-than-retrieval
personalization, inspectability, portability, host-selected identity and host-controlled
state as non-negotiable goals.

                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                             327 / 456
09 - Frontier Research
I included twelve representative research programs already:
lifelong neural learning
verified unlearning
causal world models
verifiable metacognition
deep social intelligence
reliable computer use
self-verifying improvement
scientific discovery
cross-device continuity
private retrieval
local continual training
physical-world action
The full internal register is even broader, including curiosity, formal reasoning, agent
federation, resource intelligence and other open problems.
Later the dedicated Research page will turn the complete frontier register into an
interactive atlas.


10 - Current state
The page closes by separating:
Released foundations
→ Stage G - now
→ G+ - next
→ Memory evolution
→ Cognitive core
→ Agency + self-improvement
That's a teaser for the next major page:

Roadmap - From First Commit to Lifelong
Intelligence
                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                             328 / 456
That is the page I think we should build next.


The Compare page
I agree with you that this may end up being the second-most important page after
the homepage.
I want it in two layers.
The top half should require zero AI knowledge.
We give every system the same human situation:

  “I've been offered a new job. It pays more, but I'm not sure whether taking it is
  actually right for my life.”

Then visually show what different categories are centered on.
A general assistant may reason over what you provide now.
A memory layer adds historical context.
An execution agent can act on tasks.
A companion emphasizes relationship continuity.
A digital twin tries to represent or imitate the person.
A local personal-data system brings private context together.
And Fable Sleight's intended architecture tries to combine:

  what you're trying to accomplish + what happened before + why earlier
  choices were made + what changed afterward + how confident the system
  is + what it believes matters now.

Only after that makes intuitive sense do we show the technical table.
The named-company layer will include Oki, Pickle, Sentience, Rowboat, Pally, Personal
AI, HEBB, Mem0/Hindsight/Graphiti and other truly adjacent systems-not random
ChatGPT comparisons.
For example, Oki publicly centers local whole-life context, source-backed answers and
action/audit history. (Oki Home) Rowboat centers a local linked work-memory graph
and persistent agents. (Rowboat Labs) Pally centers cross-app context and proactive

                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                              329 / 456
execution. (Pally) Sentience's stated destination is a digital version/model of the user
with cognitive systems modeled after human memory. (Sentience) Personal AI
explicitly positions Memory Stack + personal models/digital twin behavior. (Personal
AI)
And importantly, the comparison page won't say:

   “We're better.”

because we don't have evidence for that yet.
It will say:

   “Here is the problem each architecture is centered on. Here is where ours
   is structurally different. Here is what remains to be proven.”

Then after G+ we can replace some of those statements with measured results.
That will make the page much more credible.


Files
I bundled the updated site here:
Download Fable Sleight Website v0.4
The corrected comic:
Home - The Second Mind
The first new page:
System - How Fable Sleight Works
Planning documents:
Full site/content plan
Visual direction for every page
64-page Crissy storyboard
I also checked the local references programmatically: 64 comic pages, 161 speech
balloons, 11 System-page sections, and zero missing local HTML/CSS/JS
references.


                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                              330 / 456
Most importantly, the exact readability bug from your screenshot is now addressed
globally rather than patched one bubble at a time. White/light dialogue boxes now
explicitly render dark text even inside the dark Year One/Year Five/Year Forty chapters.
Next build in the sequence: the Roadmap page. That one should be much more
ambitious than a vertical list of Phase 0-15; I want the visitor to be able to visually
trace the project from the first foundations through the current Stage G/G+ branch
and onward into memory, cognition, agency, self-improvement, embodiment and the
frontier research lanes.


  Sources

  Pally | The AI personal assistant you text pally.com

  Rowboat - Your AI coworker, with memory rowboatlabs.com

  Oki Home — Your AI, locally. okihome.ai

  Mem0 Research: LoCoMo, LongMemEval & BEAM Benchmarks mem0.ai

  Graphiti — Zep | Zep getzep.com

  hindsight/hindsight-docs/src/pages/best-practices.mdx at main ·           github.com
  vectorize-io/hindsight · GitHub

  The Path to Emulating the Mind · Sentience sentience.com

  Make Your Own AI with Your Unique Memory personal.ai

8/28/2026, 7:05:35 PM




                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                            331 / 456
                                 @Web search i see you planned 8 more pages. take
                                 long time and do them all together if you can. But if
                                 doing one by one separately produces better result,
                                 thats fine make only the roadmap page and give me.
                                 then next
                                                                                 8/28/2026, 7:18:09 PM




I’m going one-by-one. For a page this important, building all eight at once would
almost certainly lower the quality. I’m making the Roadmap page as a complete
standalone experience first, then we can judge it before I use the same standard on
Capabilities/Compare/Research/etc.
I’m also changing the roadmap concept slightly after looking at good public research
roadmaps: it shouldn’t pretend R&D is a straight checklist. Anthropic’s current public
roadmap separates active goals, completed goals, updates, confidence, and
changing target dates, while OpenAI’s planning material visualizes overlapping
phases rather than a fake one-track sequence. So our page will show capability
progress, authority migration, and frontier research as separate rails.

  Thinking
  ●
      Planning the roadmap page
      I’m treating the roadmap page as the best first step, since building all eight pages
      together could dilute the visual quality. I’ll review the existing site files, then shape a
      polished standalone roadmap direction.
  ●
      Planned the roadmap page
  ●
      Searched for SITE_PLAN v0.4 files

  🌐 Searching the web
       cdn.openai.com     openai.com     anthropic.com    academy.openai.com

       alignment.anthropic.com

  ●
      Searched 5 websites



                             🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                          332 / 456
  🌐 Inspecting Website Planning Files
  ●
      Inspected website planning files and system assets for roadmap build
  ●
      Created A.L.I.C.E. roadmap with repository evidence and qualification
      matrix
  ●
      Structuring the roadmap
      I’m shaping a single public-facing roadmap with a polished visual timeline, a separate
      authority-migration rail, clear stage statuses, proof receipts, and a short “what’s next”
      section.
  ●
      Structured the roadmap
  ●
      Searched for Stage G+ handoff evidence

  🌐 Reviewing shared system styles and scripts
  ●
      Reviewed shared system styles and scripts

  🌐 Creating roadmap website files
  ●
      Created and validated roadmap website files, screenshots, and ZIP
      package

  ✓ Worked for 4m 36s


I decided to do the pages one-by-one. The Roadmap page is important enough that
rushing it alongside seven others would lower the standard we just reached with the
comic.
I built the complete Roadmap v0.1 and integrated it into the existing Fable Sleight
site.
Download Fable Sleight Website v0.5 - Roadmap Edition
Open just the new Roadmap page
The design is deliberately different from both the comic and System page. It behaves
like mission control / a flight plan, with separate rails for capability development,
memory-authority migration, current experiments, and unresolved frontier research. I
borrowed the useful public-roadmap principle from Anthropic of separating active
work, completed work, future goals, and updates instead of pretending research is a
clean linear checklist. (Anthropic) OpenAI's published planning material similarly uses

                             🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                   333 / 456
overlapping stages rather than implying every phase waits for the previous one to
finish completely, which fits our capability-first roadmap particularly well. (OpenAI)
The page now has nine major parts:

    Flight Recorder - Phases 0-5 and what has actual foundations behind it.
    Current Mission - Stage G shown properly as both memory-substrate
    qualification and the long-horizon recall baseline.
    G+ - a visual explanation of the shift from “can the past survive?” to “can the
    right past come to mind?” This is the exact G/G+ boundary in the current handoff.
    ALICE_STAGE_G_GPLUS_MEMORY_ARCHITECTURE_HANDOFF_2026-08-23(3).md

    Authority Migration Rail - existing authority → G → G+ → post-G+ reconciliation
    → H → I → J → owner acceptance. It makes clear that better candidate capability
    does not automatically gain authority.
    Full Phase 0-15 Map - all sixteen destination phases, with interactive filters for
    Foundation, Memory/Learning, Cognition, Agency, and Product/Platform.
    Inheritance Graph - visually shows how G/G+ can pull capabilities forward into
    Phase 8/9/10 without pretending those future phases are finished. That matches
    the handoff's explicit “reuse / extend / replace” reconciliation rule.
    ALICE_STAGE_G_GPLUS_MEMORY_ARCHITECTURE_HANDOFF_2026-08-23(3).md

    Frontier Horizon - only representative unsolved research questions here; the
    eventual Research page will contain the complete frontier atlas.
    Roadmap Rules - evidence before status, capability ≠ authority, research may
    move early, failures remain evidence.
    Immediate Workplan - the actual sequence from finishing G through G+,
    reconciliation, H/I/J, and then back into the main capability roadmap.

I also made Stage G much more understandable visually. The page doesn't
expose the giant backend-candidate list or name Neo4j/Qdrant/etc. The underlying
qualification requirements are real-the current Stage G contract requires individual,
comparative, cross-role, integrated, failure/recovery, correction/deletion, identity,
provenance and scale testing-but the public website talks about those as logical
memory responsibilities, not premature vendor commitments.



                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                             334 / 456
The System page navigation now links to Roadmap, and its old “Roadmap page
coming next” placeholder has been replaced with a live link.
I also verified that roadmap.html contains all 16 phases, all local CSS/JS references
resolve, and it contains no public mentions of Alice , A.L.I.C.E. , Friday , Neo4j ,
 Qdrant , or KurrentDB .

Run the full package the same way:

  START_SITE.bat


then visit:

  http://localhost:8080/roadmap.html


The next page I would build is Capabilities - What It Can Become. That one should
be visually much more playful than Roadmap/System: essentially an enormous
interactive capability atlas, where things like coding, research, simulations, scientific
discovery, vision, voice, computer use, planning, proactive work, learning, devices,
and self-improvement are shown through concrete situations rather than a wall of
feature cards.


  Sources

  https://www.anthropic.com/responsible-scaling-policy/roadmap anthropic.com

  https://cdn.openai.com/business-guides-and-resources/from-             cdn.openai.com
  experiments-to-deployments_whitepaper_11-25.pdf

8/28/2026, 7:18:18 PM




                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                             335 / 456
                               @Web search you should definitely do the UI design
                               using figma mcp or another ai with better designing
                               capability. The content is good, but I dont like the
                               design at all. its boring and generic. fix the Ui first,
                               also, dont add too much details that people starts
                               hallucinatings. Do density test in each page you make.
                               ensure that some can just skim through and
                               understand the whole thing.

                               Then if all good till now. start making the capability
                               page
                                                                           8/28/2026, 7:32:46 PM




I found the right correction: the Roadmap page needs far less reading and far
more visual state. I’m rebuilding it in Figma around a single “mission trajectory”
with only three skim levels:
1) Where we started → 2) Where we are now → 3) Where the path goes next.
The 16 phases will still exist, but they’ll live in a visual constellation/rail instead of 16
equal cards. Detailed descriptions move behind expandable/secondary states. That
keeps the page technically honest while letting someone understand the whole
roadmap in under a minute.
The redesigned Roadmap is already materially better in Figma. I did a first density
pass against the actual render: the page now has five primary visual messages,
only two paragraphs longer than one line, and the entire 16-phase plan is
compressed into five horizon rails instead of sixteen equally weighted text cards. A
skimmer can read only the large headings and colored trajectory and still understand
the state.
I’m moving on to Capabilities now. I’m not making a “feature grid.” The concept is a
Capability Atlas: Fable Sleight sits at the center, with a handful of capability domains
around it. Each domain answers one plain-English question—Can it see? Can it reason?
Can it create? Can it act? Can it learn? Can it take initiative?—and the detailed
individual capabilities live one level deeper.


                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                  336 / 456
The Figma redesign is strong enough that I’m using it as the visual source of truth
now. One constraint hit us at exactly the wrong moment: your Starter-plan Figma
MCP allowance is exhausted, so Figma blocked creation of the Capabilities page.
I’m not going back to the old generic design because of that.
I’m doing two things instead: (1) translating the approved Figma Roadmap redesign
into the runnable site, and (2) building the Capabilities page from the same new art
direction locally, with a formal density test. When the Figma allowance resets, we can
push that page into Figma for another visual polish pass.

  Thinking
  ●
      Planning the redesign
      I’m shaping the roadmap into fewer, clearer sections with a strong mission arc,
      migration rail, and phase constellation. After checking the UI direction, I’ll begin a
      capability-page structure.
  ●
      Planned the redesign
  ●
      Designed roadmap and capability pages after inspecting Figma
      screenshot
  ●
      Generated a Figma design screenshot
  ●
      Designed a Capability Atlas page

  🌐 Searching the web
       webflow.com

  ●
      Adjusting the workflow
      I’m hitting a design-editing limit, so I’m switching to implementation. I’ll preserve the
      approved visual direction, update the roadmap in code, and begin the capability page
      without introducing a new visual system midway.
  ●
      Building the capability page
      I’m translating the established Figma visual language into `capabilities.html`: deep
      navy surfaces, luminous coral accents, concise capability clusters, and clear pathways
      from proof to action. I’m keeping the layout restrained so the content remains easy to
      scan.
  ●
      Adjusted the workflow and built the capability page
  ●
      Searched 1 website


                             🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                     337 / 456
  🌐 Building Fable Sleight roadmap pages
  ●
      Verifying design package and density test

  ✓ Worked for 5m 44s


You were right to call out the design. The content was solid, but the Roadmap was
visually behaving like a technical dashboard made of cards, not like a product
people would want to explore.
I redesigned the Roadmap in Figma MCP first, then translated that direction into the
runnable site. The new visual system is much less generic: a dark mission-control
environment, one continuous trajectory, glowing phase markers, separate rails for
capability vs authority, and progressive disclosure instead of dumping all sixteen
phases on screen.
Webflow’s current scrollytelling guidance reinforces exactly this approach: complex
information is easier to follow when only the information needed at each point is
shown, with visuals and transitions carrying part of the explanation rather than long
blocks of text. (Webflow)

Roadmap v2
The page now skims as:
FOUNDATIONS → MEMORY / G → RECOLLECTION / G+ → COGNITION → AGENCY
Then, only if someone wants more, they can open the full sixteen-phase breakdown.
The key architectural distinction is also visually separated now: Stage G proves that
long-horizon memory remains trustworthy and reachable, while G+ tackles intelligent
recollection-knowing when that past matters.
 ALICE_STAGE_G_GPLUS_MEMORY_ARCHITECTURE_HANDOFF_2026-08-23(3).md The authority rail
separately shows that even after G/G+, the existing authority is not replaced until H →
I → J → owner acceptance.
Open the Figma file with the Roadmap redesign
I also preserved the roadmap rule that early work can be inherited by later phases
rather than rebuilt merely to satisfy phase numbering.
ALICE_STAGE_G_GPLUS_MEMORY_ARCHITECTURE_HANDOFF_2026-08-23(3).md



                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                              338 / 456
I added the density test you asked for
This is now going to be a mandatory test for every page we build.
For v0.6:
Roadmap

    5 primary sections.
    The sixteen phases are hidden by default.
    Two blocks explain the entire G/G+ distinction.
    One visual rail explains authority migration.
    One glance communicates current → next → future.
    Density verdict: PASS.

Capabilities

    4 primary sections.
    Only six top-level capability worlds appear initially.
    Only one capability world's detailed contents are visible at a time.
    Individual features are progressively disclosed.
    Density verdict: PASS.

Read the density report


Capabilities page - started and built
The Figma MCP unfortunately hit your Starter-plan call limit immediately when I
attempted to create the new Capabilities canvas.
I did not fall back to the previous card-grid design.
Instead I took the new Roadmap visual direction and built the first runnable
Capability Atlas locally. When the Figma allowance resets, this is the page I want to
push back into Figma for the next visual polish pass.
The page opens with:

Not one feature.
                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                          339 / 456
One intelligence that can grow into many abilities.
Then Crissy sits in the middle of an atlas with six worlds around her:

01 - PERCEIVE
Not “multimodal architecture.”
Simply:

  Can it see, hear, and understand what's around you?

The deeper layer contains:
images
screenshots
documents
voice/audio
video
application context
eventually sensors
Example:

  Ari: “What am I missing in this experiment?”

Crissy reads the chart, notes and prior work together and notices the anomaly.


02 - REASON
Research, simulation, mathematics, formal tools, source checking, optimization and
specialist reasoning are grouped under one understandable idea:

  Can it think about a difficult problem in the right way?

Example:

  “Is this actually worth building?”




                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                          340 / 456
Crissy can research the evidence, compare alternatives, simulate consequences and
use formal tools when ordinary language reasoning isn't enough.
This reflects the destination roadmap's scientific discovery/formal-intelligence work
without turning the marketing page into the roadmap itself.
ALICE_STAGE_G_GPLUS_MEMORY_ARCHITECTURE_HANDOFF_2026-08-23(3).md


03 - CREATE
The world includes:
coding
writing
editing
media
structured artifacts
generated tools
reusable skills
But the page doesn't initially list those.
It asks:

  Can it turn an idea into something real?

Example:

  “Can you make the first version?”

And then Crissy goes from planning → implementation → testing → retaining the useful
procedure.


04 - ACT
This includes:
computer use
browser
terminal
applications


                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                           341 / 456
APIs
services
future devices
But the core idea is:

  Can it do the work instead of only telling you how?

Importantly, the page separates ability from permission.
Crissy may know how to perform an action without automatically being authorized to
do it.
That matches the existing product direction, which calls for evidence-earned
autonomy rather than blind agent authority.


05 - LEARN
This is one of the most important worlds.
It brings together:
memory
intelligent recollection
reflection
belief revision
learned workflows
preferences
future rankers/routers/adapters
eventual host-specific neural adaptation
But the human question is:

  Can experience actually change it?

Example:

  “Why are you recommending the opposite this time?”

Because old decisions produced evidence.


                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                        342 / 456
That's much easier to understand.


06 - INITIATE
This includes:
missions
long-running goals
proactive research
planning
specialist coordination
future curiosity
resource-aware initiative
But the simple idea is:

  Can it notice something before you turn it into a prompt?

Ari says nothing.
Crissy notices a deadline conflict, checks whether it really matters, and suggests a
better plan.
The later roadmap still owns the full planning/proactive-agency work; Stage G/G+
themselves remain bounded and do not silently claim those capabilities are complete.
ALICE_STAGE_G_GPLUS_MEMORY_ARCHITECTURE_HANDOFF_2026-08-23(3).md


The part I like most
After the capability atlas, there is a section called:

The point is the connection.
Because this page should not leave people thinking:

  “Oh, it's ChatGPT plus six features.”

It shows one problem moving through multiple capabilities:

  ARI
  “Should I build this?”

                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                              343 / 456
          ↓

  PERCEIVE
  Read the current project

          ↓

  REASON
  Test the idea

          ↓

  CREATE
  Build a prototype

          ↓

  LEARN
  Remember what the result taught us


Then:

  The experience stays with the same intelligence instead of disappearing
  between tools.

That is the actual product thesis.


And there is now a visible hype-control system
Every capability can eventually carry one of four states:
FOUNDATION
Supporting architecture exists.
PLANNED
Defined destination.
RESEARCH
Still contains unsolved technical problems.



                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter               344 / 456
QUALIFIED
Evidence has actually passed.
The page explicitly says:

  Nothing on this page should be read as “already shipped” unless it is
  explicitly marked qualified.

That should help prevent exactly the hallucination/problem you warned about.


Files
I bundled the redesigned Roadmap and the first Capabilities page together:
Download Fable Sleight Website v0.6 - UI Redesign + Capabilities
The updated runnable pages inside are:
roadmap.html - completely redesigned
capabilities.html - new Capability Atlas

The old comic homepage and System page remain in the same package.
The Roadmap's visual design is now also represented directly in the Figma file:
Open Fable Sleight in Figma
One constraint to remember: your Figma Starter MCP limit is currently
exhausted, so I couldn't create the Capabilities Figma canvas in this turn. Once calls
become available again, the Capabilities page should get the same MCP polish pass
before we consider its visual design final.
The next page after we polish Capabilities should be Compare. I would actually build
that before Research because it is probably the most important page for explaining
why Fable Sleight deserves to exist alongside Pickle, Oki, Sentience, Pally, Rowboat,
Personal AI, HEBB, Mem0, Hindsight and the general assistants.


  Sources

  Scrollytelling in web design: Top examples and tips for getting started webflow.com
  | Webflow Blog

8/28/2026, 7:34:43 PM


                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                          345 / 456
                                                              @Web search bulit compare
                                                                             8/28/2026, 7:48:10 PM




I’m building Compare as a real page now, not just a matrix. I’m using the same rule
as the new Roadmap/Capabilities work: a skimmer should understand the whole
argument in under a minute, while the technical layer stays available underneath.
The core interaction will be one identical life decision shown through different
AI architectures, then a second layer that explains why the outputs differ. That lets
us compare Fable Sleight without turning the page into a wall of competitor logos and
marketing claims.
The competitive research is fresh now. One thing I’m changing from our earlier drafts:
the page will not use red X’s to imply “they don’t have this.” Public architecture
disclosure is incomplete for several companies, so that would be dishonest.
Instead every named comparison will use one of four evidence-safe labels:
CORE TO PUBLIC PITCH · PUBLICLY DESCRIBED · ADJACENT · NOT PUBLICLY
CLAIMED
That lets us be aggressive about Fable Sleight’s different center of gravity without
pretending we know competitors’ private internals.
The Compare page itself is built locally now. I’m checking whether the Figma
allowance has reset enough to give this page the same visual-polish pass as
Roadmap; if it hasn’t, I’ll keep the runnable version as the deliverable and preserve
the Figma pass for when MCP access returns.

  Thinking
  ●
      Searched 9 websites

  🌐 Inspecting Existing Package Files
  ●
      Building the comparison page
      I’m creating a visually compelling comparison experience focused on decision context
      rather than a generic feature grid. I’ll emphasize FableSleight’s controlled, evidence-


                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                    346 / 456
      linked approach while keeping competitor descriptions careful and supportable.
  ●
      Built the comparison page
  ●
      Inspected package files and CSS styles for visual matching

  🌐 Building Fable Sleight Comparison Page
  ●
      Preparing final checks
      I’m validating the comparison page with static checks, reviewing the exported
      package, and adding concise research notes so the visual claims remain clear,
      restrained, and easy to audit.
  ●
      Prepared final checks
  ●
      Built Fable Sleight comparison page and captured desktop/mobile
      screenshots
  ●
      Used Figma for design creation and editing

  🌐 Copying v0.7 package and validating files
  ●
      Copied and validated the v0.7 package files

  ✓ Worked for 4m 11s


Built. This version of Compare is much closer to what the page needs to do: it
explains the difference experientially first, and only exposes the technical comparison
if someone chooses to go deeper.
The competitor research is refreshed against their current public positioning. Pickle
currently presents itself as a personal, memory-based OS that continuously learns
context/preferences/intent. (Y Combinator) Oki centers private local digital-life context
and ownership. (Oki Home) Sentience explicitly centers building a digital
model/version of the user. (Sentience) Rowboat centers local linked work memory plus
persistent/background agents. (Rowboat Labs) Pally centers an assistant connected
across inboxes, calendars, files, tasks and the web. (Y Combinator) Personal AI centers
Memory Stack plus its Personal Language Model. (Personal AI) Mem0 is explicitly
memory infrastructure, while Hindsight and Graphiti are memory/cognitive-memory
architectures rather than full consumer companions. (Mem0)
The page has five skim-level ideas:


                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                               347 / 456
    Same Question Lab: one identical life decision, six different architectural lenses.
    You can switch between General Assistant → Memory Layer → Personal Context →
    Digital Self → Decision Intelligence → Fable Sleight and watch what each system
    treats the question as.
    Landscape map: the competitors orbit around their current public centers of
    gravity-memory infrastructure, personal context, digital self, work-memory agents,
    and decision/outcome systems. Fable Sleight is positioned around the connection
    between goals, evidence, judgment, action and experience.
    Five plain-English differences: “It is not trying to become you,” “Your goals
    stay alive between prompts,” “Advice keeps its receipts,” “Reality can change the
    next answer,” and “The model is replaceable.”
    Technical comparison: hidden by default. It uses CORE TO PUBLIC PITCH /
    PUBLICLY DESCRIBED / ADJACENT / NOT PUBLICLY CLAIMED instead of dishonest red
    Xs. If a competitor hasn't publicly documented something, we explicitly leave it
    unknown.
    The honest ending: “Different is not the same as better.” The page ends by
    showing Stage G → G+ → cognition/agency/learning as what still has to prove the
    thesis.

That last part matters. We aren't claiming the destination architecture has already
beaten these products.


Files
Download Fable Sleight Website v0.7 - Compare
Open Compare page directly
Compare density test
Internal comparison research notes
The density test passes: the technical matrix and source list are both collapsed by
default, there is only one scenario throughout the page, and someone can understand
the intended argument by reading roughly ten large statements without touching
the detailed material.
I also added COMPARE into the Roadmap, Capabilities and System navigation,
checked all local CSS/JS references, validated the comparison JavaScript syntax, and

                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                               348 / 456
verified there are zero public A.L.I.C.E. or Friday references in these product
pages.
One limitation remains: I tried to create the corresponding Compare canvas in Figma
again, but your Starter account is still at its MCP call limit, so Figma blocked the
write. I did not downgrade the page back to the older generic UI because of that; the
runnable version uses the new dark mission-control visual language we approved.
Once the MCP allowance returns, Compare should get the same Figma polish pass as
Roadmap before we call its design final.


  Sources

  Pickle: Where your life context becomes understanding. | Y            ycombinator.com
  Combinator

  Oki Home — Your AI, locally. okihome.ai

  Sentience | Build the digital version of you sentience.com

  Rowboat - Your AI coworker, with memory rowboatlabs.com

  Your True Personal AI | Personal AI for Everyone and in Everyday Life personal.ai

  Mem0 - AI Memory Layer for your Agents & Apps | Persistent Context mem0.ai

8/28/2026, 7:48:12 PM




                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                               349 / 456
                              @Web search can u do a deeper check. do we really
                              need this many pages? I feel some pages represent
                              same info just in different words. if we can merge some
                              pages, do that
                                                                              8/28/2026, 8:05:21 PM




Thinking
●
    Inspected generated site plan files and compared related HTML
    pages

🌐 Searching the web
     mem0.ai      ycombinator.com      docs.rowboatlabs.com   personal.ai   sentience.com

     okihome.ai    product-docs.personal.ai    docs.mem0.ai

●
    Refining navigation
    I’m weighing how to reduce overlap: keeping Trust within the system, combining
    Roadmap, Research, and Lab under Research, and merging Capabilities into Product.
    The goal is clearer navigation without losing the roadmap’s visual appeal.
●
    Refined navigation

🌐 Searching the web
     okihome.ai    rowboatlabs.com      sentience.com    personal.ai   mem0.ai

●
    Comparing site structures
    I’m checking how streamlined AI companies organize navigation and comparing that
    with the current plan. Early-stage sites generally benefit from fewer top-level pages,
    especially where Roadmap, Research, Lab, and System already overlap.
●
    Compared site structures

🌐 Searching the web
     thinkingmachines.ai   pally.com      pickle.com

●
    Shaping core pages
    I’m narrowing the site to five top-level pages: Home, Product, Build, System, and About
    in the footer. Build can preserve Roadmap as its first section, while Product absorbs

                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                      350 / 456
      Capabilities and System includes Trust.
  ●
      Planning the consolidation
      I’m treating this as an information-architecture revision first, not a full rebuild. I’ll
      preserve existing URLs where practical, document the five-page structure, and defer
      code changes until the navigation model is approved.
  ●
      Shaped core pages and planned consolidation
  ●
      Searched 8 websites

  🌐 Creating consolidated website information architecture plan
  ●
      Created consolidated website information architecture plan

  ✓ Worked for 1m 49s


Yes. After checking the current site plan, the pages we already built, and how adjacent
AI companies structure their sites, 10 primary pages is too many for Fable
Sleight right now.
The overlap is real, not theoretical. Our current System page already contains
ownership/privacy, frontier research, and current build status. system.html But the old
plan also proposed separate Trust, Research, Lab, and Roadmap pages for
essentially the same subjects. SITE_PLAN.md The Roadmap itself already contains
frontier research, too. roadmap.html
That would eventually become exactly what you were worried about: the same
concept explained four times with slightly different words.
The external research supports simplifying. Oki manages to explain capabilities,
ownership, local intelligence, action/auditing, voice, personalization, and hardware on
essentially one core product experience instead of creating a separate page for every
subsystem. (Oki Home) Sentience keeps its core story together and then separates
only genuinely different deep material such as its master plan, research/writing, and
security. (Sentience) Mem0 has a much broader navigation structure, but it is now a
mature developer/enterprise infrastructure platform with docs, APIs, pricing,
integrations, use cases, enterprise trust, research, and release notes-Fable Sleight is
nowhere near the stage where copying that information architecture helps us. (Mem0)
YC's own design advice also emphasizes reducing competing attention and getting
visitors to the product's “aha” moment quickly. (Y Combinator)


                             🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                        351 / 456
I would reduce us from 10 core pages → 5
Final page                     What it owns                   What gets merged into it

HOME - The Second Mind         Emotional explanation of why   Comic only
                               Fable Sleight should exist

SYSTEM - How It Works          Technical architecture +       System + Trust
                               privacy + authority/control

BUILD - Roadmap / Research Past progress, current work,       Roadmap + Research + Lab
/ Evidence                 future roadmap, frontier
                           problems, experiments and
                           benchmarks

CAPABILITIES - What It Can     Everything Crissy can          Capabilities + Product
Become                         eventually do + what the
                               consumer product becomes

COMPARE - Why This Is          Competitive/category           Remains standalone
Different                      positioning


And remove About from primary navigation for now.
We don't have enough company material to justify making someone click through an
entire page.
At this stage, About can simply be a concise footer/end section:
Fable Sleight
What we're building
Who is building it
GitHub
Contact
YC/company information when relevant
Later, when there is a larger team, hiring, press, investors, company history, etc., it
can become /company .


The biggest merge should be Roadmap + Research
+ Lab
Instead of three pages:

                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                               352 / 456
  ROADMAP
  Where are we going?

  RESEARCH
  What problems are unsolved?

  LAB
  What experiments have we run?


those are really three views of one thing:

BUILD
And inside it:

                 BUILD

         ┌─────────┼─────────┐
         │         │         │
      ROADMAP   FRONTIERS   EVIDENCE

   where are     what is        what have
   we now?       unsolved?      we proven?


That would be much stronger.
For example:

Stage G
Roadmap view

  Current mission: make long-term memory trustworthy.

Frontier view

  What does durable lifelong memory still need to solve?

Evidence view



                         🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter     353 / 456
  Here are the tests, baselines, failures and qualification results.

Same work.
Three depths.
Not three pages repeating Stage G.
And after G+ we can put the actual challenger results/benchmarks under Evidence
without creating another entire "Lab" navigation destination.


SYSTEM should get smaller too
The current System page has become an encyclopedia.
It currently explains:
architecture → models → memory → G+ retrieval → competitor lessons → learning →
model routing → agency → ownership → frontier research → current status.
system.html

That's too many jobs.
System should answer one question:

How does this intelligence work?
So keep:

  Identity
  Host
  Self
         ↓
  Goals / missions
         ↓
  Memory
         ↓
  Recollection
         ↓
  Judgment
         ↓
  Models + tools
         ↓
  Action


                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                       354 / 456
        ↓
  Experience
        ↓
  Learning


And keep Trust/Authority there because that's genuinely part of how the
architecture works:

  What may Crissy know?
  What may she send?
  What may she change?
  What may she do?
  Can you inspect it?
  Can you delete it?
  Can you roll it back?


But remove the full:
“here are 12 frontier research problems”
and
“here's exactly where Stage G is today.”
Those go to Build.
System can simply label something:
CURRENT RESEARCH → See Build


CAPABILITIES + PRODUCT should also become one
page
Our old plan had:
Capabilities
“What can the intelligence do?”
and separately:
Product
“What does Fable Sleight look like for consumers?” SITE_PLAN.md SITE_PLAN.md
Right now those are basically the same story.
The Capability Atlas already says:

                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                        355 / 456
 PERCEIVE
 REASON
 CREATE
 ACT
 LEARN
 INITIATE

capabilities.html

We can simply extend that page with a final section:

Then it becomes yours.
Show three people:

 MAYA                           ARI                       JUNE
    │                            │                         │
    ▼                            ▼                         ▼

 "Cleo"                       "Crissy"                  "Nova"

 research-heavy               coding + science         life admin
 quiet personality            argumentative            highly proactive
 different history            different history        different history
 different skills             different skills         different skills


Then onboarding:

 Choose identity
       ↓
 Choose what it can access
       ↓
 Connect sources
       ↓
 Start interacting
       ↓
 History accumulates
       ↓
 Capabilities personalize


Now we don't need a separate Product page.

                         🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                     356 / 456
When would Product deserve its own page?
Only once there is an actual product:
screenshots, downloads, supported OSes, onboarding, pricing, waitlist/signup, app UI,
hardware requirements, etc.
Until then, having /product would mostly be aspirational copy repeated from
Capabilities.


COMPARE absolutely stays separate
This one has a genuinely unique job.
The current page's central device-

  same question, different architecture

-is not duplicated anywhere else. compare.html
And competitive positioning is important enough to have its own shareable URL.
If somebody says:

  “Isn't this just Pickle?”

we want:
fablesleight.ai/compare

not:

  “Scroll 73% down our architecture page.”

Keep it.
But Compare should follow two rules:
Architecture details → link to System.
Proof/current status → link to Build.
It should never re-explain either.


That leaves us with a very clean navigation
                              🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                       357 / 456
I would literally make the desktop header:

  FABLE SLEIGHT          SYSTEM     BUILD    CAPABILITIES   COMPARE   GITHUB
  ↗


That's it.
No HOME .
The logo is Home.
No RESEARCH .
It's in Build.
No LAB .
It's in Build.
No TRUST .
It's in System.
No PRODUCT .
It's in Capabilities.
No ABOUT .
Footer for now.
This is a much stronger startup website.


More importantly: every page gets exactly one
question
HOME
  Why should something like this exist?

SYSTEM
  How could it actually work?

BUILD



                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                   358 / 456
  How far have you gotten, what remains unsolved, and what evidence do
  you have?

CAPABILITIES
  What will it actually be able to do for me?

COMPARE
  Why isn't this just another AI assistant / memory system / digital twin?

If two pages answer the same question, one of them is probably unnecessary.
That's the rule I'd use from here.


The density problem also improves automatically
With ten pages we were already starting to repeat:
Stage G/G+ on System, Roadmap and Compare.
Frontier research on System and Roadmap.
Capability status on Capabilities and Roadmap.
Trust inside System plus planned Trust page.
That repetition creates two risks:

1. the visitor gets tired;
2. six months later one page says something slightly different from another and the
   site starts contradicting itself.

So v0.8 should introduce content ownership.
For example:

  Full Stage G explanation exists only on Build.

System may say:

   Active research: intelligent recollection →



                             🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                      359 / 456
but clicking it opens Build.
Likewise:

  Full competitive claim exists only on Compare.

  Full privacy/authority explanation exists only on System.

One authoritative public explanation per concept.
That should be part of our density test.


I have rewritten the site architecture around this five-page model:
Download/read the consolidated v0.8 site architecture
So I would not build the previously planned Research, Trust, Product, Lab, or
About pages anymore.
The next useful step is actually to refactor what already exists before adding anything
else:
System gets trimmed. Roadmap becomes BUILD and absorbs Research +
Lab. Capabilities absorbs Product. Compare remains. Comic remains
untouched.
That leaves us with a compact site where every click genuinely takes the visitor
somewhere new instead of restating the same vision.


  Sources

  Oki Home — Your AI, locally. okihome.ai

  Sentience | Build the digital version of you sentience.com

  Mem0 - AI Memory Layer for your Agents & Apps | Persistent Context mem0.ai

  Design Review: How to convert more visitors into customers | Y      ycombinator.com
  Combinator

8/28/2026, 8:05:24 PM




                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                           360 / 456
The next useful step is actually to refactor what already exists before adding
anything else: **System gets trimmed. Roadmap becomes BUILD and absorbs
Research + Lab. Capabilities absorbs Product. Compare remains. Comic remains
untouched.** That leaves us with a compact site where every click genuinely takes
the visitor somewhere new instead of restating the same vision.

                                       @Web search do that. give me the final website
                                                                            8/28/2026, 8:10:16 PM




Thinking
 ●
     Preparing the website update
     I’m updating the existing v0.7 files rather than starting over. I’ll preserve the current
     architecture, refine the three requested modules, and keep the result runnable with the
     existing scripts.
 ●
     Prepared the website update

🌐 Searching the web
      ycombinator.com    mem0.ai     rowboatlabs.com    sentience.com

 ●
     Searched 4 websites

🌐 Inspecting Website Project Files
 ●
     Scoping the final pages
     I’m consolidating the product into five focused pages: homepage, system, build,
     capabilities, and compare. I’ll keep the visual language consistent while making the
     roadmap feel current, intentional, and easy to scan.
 ●
     Scoped the final pages

🌐 Checking browser tools for website QA
 ●
     Built and inspected Fable Sleight website files, styles, and pages

🌐 Searching the web
      github.com



                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                    361 / 456
  ●
        Searched 1 website

  🌐 Creating globally styled comparison page
  ●
        Completed website styling, navigation updates, content QA, link
        checks, and responsive testing

  🌐 Searching the web
         hebb.io   personal.ai

  ●
        Calibrating comparison claims
        I’m separating verified public features from inferred or planned capabilities, especially
        around memory, identity, proactive action, persistent goals, and model-independent
        continuity. That keeps the comparison sharp without overstating competitors.
  ●
        Calibrated comparison claims
  ●
        Searched 2 websites
  ●
        Patched, rendered, audited, and packaged the responsive website
        release

  ✓ Worked for 11m 57s


Done. I consolidated everything into the final five-page Fable Sleight website and
refactored the existing pages instead of adding more redundant ones.
The final information architecture is now:

      Home - The Second Mind: the 64-page Ari + Crissy comic. Story is preserved;
      navigation is updated.
      System: the complete technical explanation-identity/personality, host,
      relationship, self, world/causal/social/belief models, memory, recollection, routing,
      tools, learning, authority, privacy, deletion, rollback. Frontier/status repetition was
      removed.
      Build: replaces Roadmap and absorbs Roadmap + Research + Lab. It now
      owns progress, Stage G/G+, the 16-phase destination map, frontier research,
      benchmark plans, evaluation methodology, and evidence.
      Capabilities: absorbs the old planned Product page. It has the six-world
      Capability Atlas-Perceive / Reason / Create / Act / Learn / Initiate-plus what

                                 🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                  362 / 456
    Fable Sleight eventually looks like for different users with their own named
    intelligences.
    Compare: remains standalone. Same-question comparison first, competitive
    landscape second, five plain-English differences, then an optional technical matrix.

I also rechecked the competitive positioning before freezing Compare. Pickle currently
centers a personal memory-based OS, Sentience explicitly centers a digital
version/model of the person, Rowboat centers a local AI coworker with memory, Pally
centers a connected personal assistant, Mem0 centers production memory
infrastructure, while Hindsight/Graphiti expose increasingly sophisticated memory
architectures. (Y Combinator) The page therefore says “not publicly claimed”,
never “they don't have this,” when internals aren't public.
I also ran the density audit you asked for. System is ~861 visible words, Build ~725,
Capabilities ~454, and Compare ~605. Deep details are progressively disclosed; the
comic averages about 76 words per page despite being 64 pages long. YC's design
guidance similarly recommends reducing competing attention and getting visitors to
the product's “aha” moment quickly. (Y Combinator)


Final files
Download the complete final website - Fable Sleight v1.0
Home / Comic
System
Build
Capabilities
Compare
Density audit
To run it, unzip and double-click START_SITE.bat . It opens http://localhost:8080 .
I did a final technical QA as well: every main page returns successfully, internal
links/assets have 0 missing references, all JavaScript passes syntax validation,
there are no duplicate HTML IDs, and the public deployable files contain zero
references to Alice, A.L.I.C.E., Friday, Neo4j, Qdrant, or KurrentDB.
 roadmap.html remains only as a redirect to the new consolidated Build page so old
links do not break.


                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                               363 / 456
ZIP SHA-256: d5017d1595bd0309ec769aaaf92175e2f3df43b7efde053ce55f5e4604d646ae


  Sources

  https://www.ycombinator.com/companies/pickle-2 ycombinator.com

8/28/2026, 8:10:27 PM




                        🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                           364 / 456
                              @Web search ok. back to deep research. The way we
                              progressing and complexity is increasing, fable sleight
                              will take a long time before becoming a consumer
                              product. which is obviously the goal. But we gotta show
                              some short term product plan and profit plan from it.
                              after all investors care most about how much money it
                              will make and they wanna see that we have a clear
                              direction on making money.

                              So, maybe we can show a 6 month to 1 year target and
                              we can take some part of alice (like a feature) and
                              launch fable sleight as a consumer product while keep
                              on building and reaching towards the ultimate goal.
                              any idea on this?
                                                                               8/28/2026, 8:37:56 PM




Thinking
🌐 Searching the web
     usemotion.com     app.pally.com    pally.com    ycombinator.com     granola.ai

     personal.ai

●
    Shaping product options
    I’m comparing narrow wedges that can expand naturally: decision memory, project
    intelligence, and daily mission briefs. I’ll assess differentiation, customer willingness to
    pay, competition, pricing, and milestones through a wedge-to-platform plan.
●
    Shaped product options
●
    Searched 6 websites
●
    Designing a compliant launch
    I’m narrowing Fable Sleight to an early-access mission-memory product built from
    capabilities already available or approved in Alice. I’ll preserve local-first privacy, avoid
    premature cloning, and define pricing, milestones, and expansion paths.
●
    Designed a compliant launch


                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                       365 / 456
   ●
       Fetched product vision documentation and reviewed roadmap phases

  🌐 Searching the web
        ycombinator.com    news.ycombinator.com

   ●
       Modeling early economics
       I’m using local inference to reduce routine costs, with optional premium usage sold as
       credits. A $15–$20 monthly price fits comparable products, while scenario modeling
       will test revenue potential without overpromising margins.
   ●
       Modeled early economics

  🌐 Searching the web
        pickle.com   personal.ai   pickle.com     shop.pickle.com   builder.pickle.com

        okihome.ai

   ●
       Finalizing the wedge
       I’m grounding the plan in current capabilities and comparable pricing. The strongest
       near-term offer is a local-first mission-memory product, with simple subscription tiers,
       optional premium usage, and measurable milestones toward broader personal
       intelligence.
   ●
       Finalized the wedge
   ●
       Searched 2 websites

  🌐 Modeling compounding build path and revenue milestones
   ●
       Modeled compounding build path and revenue milestones

  ✓ Worked for 2m 3s


Yes. I think this is the missing business layer.
The long-term Fable Sleight vision is too ambitious to wait for before charging
anyone. But the answer is not to build a random side-product just to make money. We
should launch a narrow paid wedge that is literally the first useful slice of the
final architecture.
YC's guidance lines up with that. They recommend launching once you have a real
“quantum of utility,” talking to users, and iterating rather than waiting for the perfect
product. For fundraising, YC also explicitly says investors want the market, customer,



                             🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                    366 / 456
traction, business model, and a credible roadmap-not merely a grand technical vision.
(Y Combinator)

My strongest recommendation: Fable Sleight Missions
Not a separate company or permanent sub-brand. Think of it as the first commercial
mode of Fable Sleight.
The pitch is extremely simple:

  Your projects shouldn't reset when the chat ends.
  Fable Sleight remembers what you're trying to accomplish, why decisions
  were made, what happened afterward, and what still needs attention.

Target one type of person first:
solo founders, researchers, engineers and highly technical creators juggling
multiple long-running projects.
Not “everyone.”
These people have a painful version of the exact problem Fable Sleight eventually
solves:

  ChatGPT knows this conversation.
  Claude knows another conversation.
  GitHub knows the code.
  Calendar knows deadlines.
  Docs know the plan.
  Email knows commitments.

  But the human is still
  the only thing connecting all of it.


That is commercially understandable today.
And unlike “personal memory AI,” it doesn't place us head-to-head with
Pickle/Oki/Pally on their strongest positioning.


What the 6-month product actually does
Keep v1 brutally focused around five behaviors.

                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                            367 / 456
1. Persistent Missions
User creates:

  Ship my startup MVP

or:

  Finish my research paper

or:

  Land a quant internship

Fable knows that conversations, files, research and decisions can all belong to that
same mission.
Then three weeks later:

  “Where were we?”

doesn't mean retrieving the last message.
It means:

  CURRENT GOAL
  Ship prototype by Oct 14

  WHAT CHANGED
  API choice changed
  UI prototype completed
  pricing undecided

  OPEN DECISIONS
  Hosted vs local inference

  BLOCKER
  authentication




                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                           368 / 456
  NEXT LIKELY ACTION
  finish auth before expanding UI


That's an actual product.


2. Decision Memory
Whenever something consequential is decided:

  DECISION
  Use architecture B.

  WHY
  Lower initial infrastructure cost.
  Faster to ship.
  Enough capacity for beta.

  ASSUMPTION
  <1,000 initial users.

  REVISIT IF
  Usage grows above threshold.


Later Fable can answer:

  “Why didn't we use architecture A?”

That's considerably more valuable than:

  “I found a chat from March.”


3. Mission-aware recall
This is where G+ becomes commercially useful.
The user says:

  “I got another opportunity from NVIDIA.”

Fable shouldn't just search for “NVIDIA.”

                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter   369 / 456
It should understand that this may connect to:

  career goal
       │
  ML trajectory
       │
  open-source work
       │
  existing commitments
       │
  current internship applications


The early consumer product therefore gives G+ a real reason to exist.


4. Weekly Mission Review
Once a week:

Here's what moved.
  3 decisions made
  2 assumptions still unresolved
  1 deadline moved

  You spent most of the week on:
  UI polish

  But your stated priority was:
  retrieval reliability

  You may be drifting from the plan.

  Review?


This is the beginning of Crissy noticing something the user hasn't explicitly asked
about-without pretending we've already built Phase 10 autonomy.


5. Outcome follow-up
A week/month later:

                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                               370 / 456
  “You chose B because we expected it to save time. Did it?”

The user answers.
Fable records the result.
Eventually:

  “You've made this kind of tradeoff four times. Want to look at the pattern?”

This directly advances the long-term Experience → outcome → future judgment
architecture.


What we deliberately DO NOT put in v1
This is important.
No attempt at:

    full digital clone;
    world model;
    social model;
    autonomous desktop control;
    voice-first ambient assistant;
    continuous camera/audio capture;
    autonomous coding agent;
    self-training;
    robotics;
    huge connector ecosystem;
    perfect proactive agency;
    complete personal-life ingestion.

Those remain the destination.
The MVP wins by doing one job unusually well:



                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                        371 / 456
   keep long-running work cognitively continuous.

YC specifically warns that early startups need a product a small group loves before
trying to grow everywhere. (Y Combinator)


Why this is particularly good for our architecture
The nice part is that almost nothing becomes throwaway code.

Paid MVP capability                             Long-term Fable architecture

Mission workspace                               Mission Graph

Decision record                                 Experience Ledger

Project history                                 Memory fabric

Intelligent project recall                      G+ recollection

Weekly review                                   Attention / Cognitive Workspace

Assumption tracking                             Belief + Prediction model

Outcome check-in                                Outcome-learning architecture

Research with sources                           Phase 4 information intelligence

Memory inspector                                Phase 6 Inspector

GitHub/files/calendar integration               Phase 7 capability fabric

Later proactive alerts                          Phase 10 agency


This is exactly what I want investors to see:

  EARLY REVENUE PRODUCT
          │
          │ is not a detour
          ▼
  TRAINS / VALIDATES THE SAME
  ARCHITECTURE
          │
          ▼

                              🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                           372 / 456
  FULL PERSONAL
  COGNITIVE SYSTEM


The current product plan already says Fable Sleight's consumer distribution should
inherit transferable capability from the flagship architecture rather than become a
permanently reduced chatbot.
The current roadmap also already contains most of the pieces this MVP needs-
authoritative memory, conversation, public research, Experience Ledger, Mission
Graph contracts, UI/Inspector, and later integrations.
So we're productizing the front edge of the roadmap, not creating another
roadmap.


I would change the current Fable product timeline
Right now our ratified roadmap effectively says:
Phase 7: first signed Windows local-ingestion alpha.
Phase 8: earliest credible closed alpha.
That's extremely conservative.
I would add a new product-track milestone-not a new ALICE phase:

Fable Sleight Revenue Wedge
after sufficient G/G+ + host-neutral UI capability exists.
Something like:

  ALICE

  Stage G
     ↓
  G+
     ↓
  host-neutral packaging
     ↓

  ────────────────────────────

  FABLE SLEIGHT

                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                              373 / 456
  MISSION PREVIEW

     ↓

  paid closed alpha

     ↓

  paid public beta

     ↓

  capabilities expand
  as ALICE proves them


That doesn't violate the flagship-capability rule.
Fable only gets capabilities already proven upstream.


Proposed 12-month plan
Given we're at the end of August 2026, I'd frame the investor plan roughly as
September 2026 → August 2027.

Months 0-3 - Build the commercial core
Do not chase hundreds of integrations.
Build:

    Windows app;
    host onboarding;
    mission creation;
    conversations attached to missions;
    durable decision records;
    manual/local file ingestion;
    research with citations;
    memory inspector;


                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                        374 / 456
    deletion/export;
    G/G+ winning retrieval path once qualified.

Recruit around 20-30 design partners manually.
Talk to every one.
YC explicitly recommends this kind of early manual customer work rather than
premature scaling. (Y Combinator)


Months 3-6 - Paid private beta
Add:

    weekly mission review;
    unresolved-thread detection;
    decision outcome follow-up;
    GitHub;
    calendar;
    one document source;
    basic conflict detection.

And start charging.
The milestone isn't:

  “10,000 signups.”

I'd rather show investors:

  “27 people use this every week and 18 voluntarily pay.”

That's far more informative.


Months 6-9 - Public beta
Now make onboarding self-serve.


                             🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                     375 / 456
Add:

      free tier;
      paid subscription;
      automatic updates;
      one-click mission import;
      stronger recollection;
      limited proactive suggestions;
      mobile/web companion if demand warrants it.

This is when we start measuring genuine conversion and retention rather than
founder-assisted adoption.


Months 9-12 - Expansion
Only after seeing what users actually love:
Maybe users care most about:
project memory.
Or:
decision tracking.
Or:
weekly reviews.
Or:
cross-project conflict detection.
Whichever creates the strongest retention gets expanded.
Not whichever capability looks coolest on our roadmap.
That is important.


Revenue model
Adjacent products give us a useful pricing band.



                               🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                   376 / 456
Granola's Business plan is currently $14/user/month. Motion Pro AI is
$19/user/month. Pally charges $25/month for Pro and $100/month for its high-end
assistant tier. (Granola)
So I would launch around:

Free
1-2 active missions.
Limited history.
Basic local intelligence.
Basic research.
Enough to experience the product's value.

Pro - $18/month
or roughly $180/year.
Unlimited active missions.
Full history.
Advanced recollection.
Weekly mission reviews.
Decision/outcome tracking.
Integrations.
Stronger reasoning models / included usage allocation.
Memory inspector + export.
I'd keep one paid tier initially.
No Pricing MBA nonsense with seven packages.


Cloud inference should not destroy our margins
Our local-first architecture can actually become a business advantage here.
Use local compute for things like:




                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                     377 / 456
  indexing
  memory formation
  retrieval
  classification
  mission bookkeeping
  light summarization
  privacy screening


Then use frontier models only when the task warrants them.
Granola explicitly argues that its device-based architecture reduces infrastructure cost
relative to heavier cloud-based approaches. (Granola) Pally similarly gates model
quality and usage through different subscription allowances rather than offering
unlimited expensive inference at one price. (Pally)
For Fable, I'd define an internal economic gate:

  Model + cloud infrastructure COGS should remain below ~25% of
  subscription revenue before we aggressively scale paid acquisition.

Not because 25% is magically optimal.
It's a guardrail.
If expensive inference rises:

  local model
         ↓
  smarter routing
         ↓
  included allowance
         ↓
  optional additional credits


rather than quietly losing money on power users.


What the revenue can look like
At $18/month:




                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                            378 / 456
Paid users                     MRR                        ARR run-rate

100                            $1,800                     $21,600

1,000                          $18,000                    $216,000

5,000                          $90,000                    $1.08M

10,000                         $180,000                   $2.16M


I would not put 10,000 paid users in a YC application as a forecast.
Use it to show economics.
The actual investor milestone should be something closer to:

  “Prove 100 people will pay for persistent mission intelligence, then prove
  we can reach 1,000 without retention collapsing.”

YC's fundraising guidance specifically emphasizes customer adoption, growth, and a
clear mechanism by which users become revenue. (Y Combinator)


The strongest investor story becomes much
cleaner
Before:

  “We're building an extremely advanced personal cognitive system. It may take
  years.”

Investor:

  “Okay… when is there a product?”

Now:

  Our long-term goal is a lifelong personal cognitive system. We're
  commercializing it in layers.
  The first product is persistent mission intelligence for people doing long-
  running work. It remembers goals, decisions, rationale, unresolved

                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                        379 / 456
  threads and outcomes across projects.
  Users pay $18/month. Every successive ALICE capability-better
  recollection, reflection, host models, proactive planning, computer use
  and personal learning-expands the same product rather than replacing it.

Then diagram:

  2026-27
  FABLE SLEIGHT
  MISSION CONTINUITY
            │
            ▼
  MEMORY + OUTCOMES
            │
            ▼
  PERSONAL COGNITION
            │
            ▼
  PROACTIVE AGENCY
            │
            ▼
  PERSONAL MODEL ADAPTATION
            │
            ▼
  FULL PERSONAL
  COGNITIVE SYSTEM


That tells the investor:
there is a product now.
there is revenue before the moonshot is complete.
and early revenue accelerates the moonshot instead of distracting from it.


Why I wouldn't launch the other obvious wedges
Generic memory assistant: already crowded by Pickle, Oki, Pally, Personal AI and
memory infrastructure companies. Pickle is explicitly building around “one person, one
memory,” while Oki sells local whole-life memory/search/action. (Pickle)


                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                          380 / 456
Cross-app personal assistant: Pally is already extremely strong there and charges
$25/month for precisely that experience. (Pally)
Digital clone: Personal AI and Sentience occupy that conceptual territory, and it
undersells our source/host/self architecture anyway.
Decision tracker only: too close to HEBB's positioning and probably too narrow to
naturally absorb the rest of Fable.
AI notetaker: Granola and a dozen others. Terrible place for us to fight.
General coding agent: crowded and disconnects from the core thesis.


Mission continuity is different.
It uses our Mission Graph + memory + Experience Ledger + G+ as the product.
Those are already central to where ALICE is going.


One thing I would make even more specific
For the first 50 users, I wouldn't market:

  “AI for your whole life.”

I'd market:

Fable Sleight for Builders
  Keep your projects, decisions and goals continuous across months of
  work.

The first users I'd actively recruit are:
solo founders
researchers
engineers building side projects
graduate students
independent technical creators



                              🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                         381 / 456
They're more likely to tolerate an early Windows desktop application, local models,
rough edges and manual onboarding.
And many have enough economic value attached to their time that paying $18/month
is not absurd.
YC's pricing advice similarly notes that the earliest adopters often care more about the
benefit than price when the value is clear. (Y Combinator)


The product ladder I would show investors
This is probably the cleanest single slide:

                        FABLE SLEIGHT

  YEAR 1
  MISSION INTELLIGENCE
  projects · decisions · recall · outcomes
              │
              ▼
  YEAR 2
  PERSONAL COGNITION
  host model · reflection · beliefs · judgment
              │
              ▼
  YEAR 3+
  PROACTIVE INTELLIGENCE
  planning · computer use · specialist agents
              │
              ▼
  LONG TERM
  LIFELONG PERSONAL INTELLIGENCE
  personal learning · models · devices · embodiment


One product.
One subscription relationship.
Increasing value as the architecture matures.
Not five different startups.




                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                           382 / 456
There is one governance consequence we'd need to handle deliberately: the current
roadmap says the first signed consumer alpha appears around Phase 7 and the
earliest credible closed alpha around Phase 8. If we adopt this commercial strategy, I
think we should eventually amend the product track to add an earlier Revenue
Wedge / Mission Preview gate, while preserving the rule that Fable Sleight cannot
silently outrun ALICE's proven transferable capabilities. That would be a product-
roadmap change, not a change to the ultimate architecture.
I think this gives us a substantially better YC story than simply saying “the complete
product will take years.”


  Sources

  YC’s Essential Startup Advice | Y Combinator ycombinator.com

  AI meeting notes pricing explained: why Granola costs less than            granola.ai
  alternatives | Granola

  Pally | The AI personal assistant you text pally.com

  Join Pickle builder.pickle.com

8/28/2026, 8:38:00 PM




                             🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                          383 / 456
                             @Web search but im applying for yc literally next
                             month. i was just thinking i will show that yes i have
                             this crazy moonshot long term goal, but i also got this
                             short term initialization product plan tha i will launch
                             within next 1 year and start profitting. and we dont
                             even have the mission continuity ready yet, launch and
                             getting 50-100 user will take at least 1 year. and we
                             applying for yc literally next month. All we got now is
                             the plan. thats it? Will these reduce or impact our
                             chance in yc? should we already have the initial
                             mission product with 100 user and profit ready before
                             applying for yc?
                                                                           8/28/2026, 8:49:40 PM




Thinking
🌐 Searching the web
     ycombinator.com

●
    Assessing YC readiness
    I’m evaluating whether a strong concept can outweigh limited traction. I’ll distinguish
    YC’s application expectations from ideal progress, then suggest what the team should
    demonstrably build before applying next month.
●
    Prioritizing credible progress
    I’m separating YC’s minimum bar from stronger evidence: revenue and 100 users
    aren’t required, but a working prototype, real user conversations, and early
    commitments would make a plan feel substantially more credible.
●
    Assessed YC readiness and prioritized credible progress

🌐 Searching the web
     ycombinator.com    news.ycombinator.com

●
    Strengthening the application




                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                    384 / 456
       I’m treating ALICE’s existing technical prototype as meaningful progress, while Fable
       remains pre-launch. I’d present both clearly, then use next month to validate one sharp
       wedge—not chase arbitrary user counts or revenue.
   ●
       Strengthened the application
   ●
       Searched 1 website

  ✓ Worked for 42s


No - you absolutely do not need 100 users, revenue, or a finished Fable Sleight
product before applying to YC.
YC's current FAQ is unusually explicit: about 40% of companies they fund are
“just an idea,” and most accepted companies have no revenue. YC's
homepage currently goes even further: “We fund companies with no revenue, product,
or fully baked idea.” (Y Combinator)
So I would not delay applying just to manufacture 100 users.
But there is an important second half:

  Having no consumer product does not disqualify us. Having only a slide
  deck and a grand vision would make us materially weaker.

Those are different things.
And fortunately, we're not actually at “idea only.”

What we really have
The YC story should not be:

  “I have an idea for a JARVIS-like personal AI. Someday I'll build it.”

It should be:

  “I've already spent months building the underlying personal-cognitive
  architecture and validating its hardest foundations. The complete product
  is a long-term moonshot. I've now identified a much narrower commercial
  entry point that I can ship first and charge for while the full architecture
  continues to mature.”

                             🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                 385 / 456
That's much stronger.
Your current consumer-product architecture already defines local host identity,
persistent memory, host-specific learning, replaceable foundation models, skills,
personal state, inspection, deletion and eventual broader capability.
And the roadmap already represents significant engineering work before the complete
consumer experience: identity/authority, evidence, memory, conversational
orchestration, public research, experience/outcome capture, Mission Graph and the
later cognition/agency stack.
YC can distinguish:
pre-product
from
hasn't built anything.
We're the former.


Would having 100 paying users improve our odds?
Of course.
If two otherwise identical teams apply and:
Team A: idea + architecture + prototype
versus
Team B: same thing + 100 people paying every month
Team B has removed a major piece of market risk.
So yes, the absence of users is a missing positive signal.
But it is not some checkbox YC requires.
YC's admissions team specifically says they have to evaluate teams that haven't
launched yet, and YC's current FAQ says they intentionally fund extremely early
companies. (Y Combinator)
There are also YC student examples where companies applied with very basic
prototypes and few users, then spent the following year figuring out the actual
product. (Y Combinator)
So I would not think:

                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                             386 / 456
      0 users = bad YC application


I would think:

      0 users means the rest of the evidence needs to carry more weight.



What would concern me about our application
today
Not the absence of revenue.
This sentence would concern me:

  “We'll launch our first product in about one year.”

That sounds slow for software.
YC consistently tells pre-launch software founders to get something in front of users
quickly. Michael Seibel describes the MVP as the ridiculously simple first thing you can
give users to determine whether you're delivering value at all, and says the goal of a
pre-launch company is to launch quickly and get anyone interacting with it. (Y
Combinator)
Their essential startup advice similarly says to launch once you have a small
“quantum of utility,” then talk to users and iterate. (Y Combinator)
So I would change our commercial roadmap from:

  12 months → first users

to:

  12 months → meaningful paid product

with something much earlier before it.


What I want us to have by the YC application
Not 100 users.


                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                           387 / 456
I would target five concrete things over the next month:


1. Existing A.L.I.C.E. technical demo
This is the biggest thing we already have going for us.
We should be able to show, in ~60-90 seconds:

  Here's the architecture that's already built.
  Here's actual persistent governed memory.
  Here's the research/evaluation pipeline.
  Here's what we're currently testing.

That proves you're capable of building this crazy thing.


2. A tiny Fable Sleight product prototype
Not production Fable Sleight.
Not Stage G+ complete.
Something like:

Fable Sleight Preview
User creates:

  Mission: Get my research paper submitted

Then they can add:

  Goal
  Submit paper by December

  Current blockers
  Need final experiment
  Need advisor review

  Decision
  Run experiment B instead of A



                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter    388 / 456
  Why
  Cheaper + faster

  Open question
  Does accuracy hold?


Have a conversation.
Close it.
Come back.
Ask:

  “Where were we?”

And the system reconstructs the mission.
Then:

  “Why did we choose experiment B?”

It shows the decision.
That's enough for someone to touch the thesis.
It does not need the final G+ architecture underneath.
It can be explicitly labeled:

  Product prototype - not canonical cognitive architecture.

For user-validation purposes, that's completely fine.


3. Talk to ~15 real target users
This could matter more than trying to fake 100 signups.
YC repeatedly emphasizes founder engagement with users. Even when founders don't
have many users, YC has historically cared about what they've learned from real
people. (Y Combinator)
Talk to:


                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                   389 / 456
    founders;
    PhD students;
    researchers;
    developers with multiple projects;
    technical students;
    independent builders.

Ask them about the problem, not:

  “Would you use my AI?”

Ask:

  “How do you keep track of decisions across long projects?”

  “Have you ever forgotten why you made an architectural choice?”

  “What happens when you resume something after three months?”

  “How many AI conversations are involved in one project?”

  “What do current assistants fail to understand?”

The findings make our application much sharper.


4. Get 3-5 design partners
This would be excellent.
Not:

  100 customers.

Just:




                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter           390 / 456
  “Five technical users have agreed to use the first private build as soon as
  it's available, and we're building it with them.”

Even better if one says:

  “I'd pay $20/month if this actually solves this.”

Best case, collect a few small deposits or paid pilots.
But do not fabricate demand by aggressively pushing people to pay for
something nonexistent.


5. Have the commercial roadmap
Something like:

  NOW
  A.L.I.C.E. research system
  core cognitive architecture
  Stage G
           │
           ▼
  NEXT 1-2 MONTHS
  Fable Sleight Preview
  mission continuity prototype
  5-20 design users
           │
           ▼
  3-6 MONTHS
  Private alpha
  mission memory
  decisions
  research
  weekly review
           │
           ▼
  6-12 MONTHS
  Paid Fable Sleight
  self-serve onboarding
  paid subscription


                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                  391 / 456
  initial integrations
          │
          ▼
  LONG TERM
  full personal cognitive system


That tells YC:
we know where the moonshot goes.
And:
we know what we're selling before reaching the moon.


That's the key distinction
The YC application doesn't need:

  “We already proved the company works.”

That's what later investors increasingly expect.
YC exists partly because that proof often doesn't exist yet.
What YC needs to believe is:


1. You're capable of building something unusually difficult.
Our technical progress helps enormously here.


2. You understand something about the problem other people don't.
Our whole competitor audit + architectural work helps here.

3. This can become huge.
The full Fable Sleight thesis helps here.


4. You're not going to spend five years hiding in a lab.
This is the part the near-term product plan fixes.


5. You move fast.
                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter       392 / 456
That is why getting even a crude prototype in front of five people before the interview
is valuable.


And there is another advantage to applying now
Suppose YC rejects us.
That is not catastrophic.
YC says repeat applicants who show progress are actively encouraged, and their
admissions analysis found that teams that reapply after making progress are more
likely to get accepted. (Y Combinator)
Then our next application looks like:

  LAST APPLICATION
  Stage G
  Fable prototype
  0 paying users

                 ↓ 6 months

  NEXT APPLICATION
  G+ complete
  paid alpha
  37 weekly users
  12 paying
  retention data
  real usage patterns


That's an extremely strong progression story.
So there isn't much upside in saying:

  “Let's wait until we're obviously ready.”

YC itself explicitly says waiting because you're “too early” is a mistake. (Y Combinator)


One timing issue
As of August 28, 2026, the on-time deadline for YC's Fall 2026 batch was July 27. YC
is still accepting late applications and explicitly says that if you're ready, it's better

                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                            393 / 456
to apply late than wait; they fund late applicants every batch. (Y Combinator)
So if by “next month” you literally mean September for Fall 2026, I wouldn't
deliberately wait until the end of September trying to reach some artificial user
threshold.
I'd get the application ready as quickly as we can make it excellent.
If you're targeting a future batch instead, YC also allows applications to future batches
now. (Y Combinator)


What I'd put in the YC application today
The commercialization story should be something like:

  Our long-term goal is a lifelong personal cognitive system: an intelligence
  that develops persistent memory, judgment, skills and a relationship with
  its host over decades.
  We've already built the underlying research system and are currently
  validating its long-horizon memory architecture.
  We won't wait for the entire moonshot to commercialize it. Our first Fable
  Sleight product focuses on long-running projects: it keeps goals,
  decisions, rationale, unresolved threads and outcomes continuous across
  months of work. We plan to put the first prototype in users' hands
  immediately, run a private alpha over the next several months, and launch
  the first paid version within 6-12 months. Each later cognitive capability
  expands this same product rather than replacing it.

That sounds very different from:

  “We have a plan and maybe there'll be a product in a year.”


What I would not spend this month doing
Don't pause Stage G and frantically build a polished SaaS product.
Don't obsess about reaching 100 users.
Don't build billing.


                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                              394 / 456
Don't build ten integrations.
Don't create fake traction through a giant waitlist campaign.
Don't sacrifice the actual research foundation.
Instead:

  Build the smallest believable representation of the commercial wedge and
  get a handful of real people to interact with it.

A simple prototype + 5 real design users + 15 customer interviews + a
substantial existing technical project can tell a much more compelling early-stage
YC story than a rushed product with 100 meaningless free signups.
So yes, apply next month even if revenue is zero. What I'd try hard to avoid is
applying with zero external user evidence whatsoever. That's the realistic bar I'd
set for us-not 100 paying customers.


  Sources

  Frequently Asked Questions | Y Combinator ycombinator.com

8/28/2026, 8:49:44 PM




                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                       395 / 456
                                so what should be the work plan then? we doing stage
                                G now. when do we start making this initial fable
                                sleight product? how does it affect our current
                                workflow? and we'll apply next month as the early
                                decision of spring 27
                                                                               8/28/2026, 8:58:07 PM




  Thinking
  🌐 Searching the web
       ycombinator.com

  ●
      Planning the parallel track
      I’m balancing two goals: preserving the dissertation’s research integrity while turning
      Fable into a credible early product. I’ll verify the application timing, then map a staged
      plan from current research through next month and the following year.
  ●
      Planned the parallel track
  ●
      Searched 1 website

  ✓ Worked for 23s


Yes. I would change the workflow now, but not by stopping Stage G.
The key is to separate research, product validation, and productization so we
can apply to YC next month with something concrete without derailing ALICE.
YC's Early Decision program fits this well: students can apply now for a future batch
such as Spring 2027, receive funding immediately if accepted, and reserve the future
batch. YC also explicitly says early-stage companies should apply; about 40% of
funded companies are at idea stage and most have no revenue. (Y Combinator)

The workflow I recommend
From now on we run two parallel tracks:




                             🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                     396 / 456
                       FABLE SLEIGHT
                            │
            ┌──────────────┴──────────────┐
            │                              │
       RESEARCH TRACK                 PRODUCT TRACK
         A.L.I.C.E.                   Fable Preview
            │                              │
        Stage G                        prototype
            │                              │
            ▼                              ▼
           G+                        design partners
            │                              │
            └──────────────┬──────────────┘
                            │
                  qualified capability
                            │
                            ▼
                      real product


The mistake would be making the consumer product depend on finishing the entire
ALICE roadmap.
The opposite mistake would be pausing ALICE and spending the next month building a
fake polished SaaS.
We do neither.


Track A - ALICE remains the main engineering work
~75-80% of technical effort
Continue Stage G exactly as you're doing now.
Do not modify the Kaggle tournament because of YC.
Do not rush Stage G.
Do not weaken the memory qualification so we can put something in a demo.
Do not start G+ prematurely.
The sequence remains:



                         🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                        397 / 456
  STAGE G
  │
  ├─ personality qualification
  ├─ memory substrate qualification
  └─ recall baseline
          ↓
  G accepted
          ↓
  G+
          ↓
  winner selected
          ↓
  architecture reconciliation


ALICE is the thing that proves we can actually build what we're claiming.
That is valuable in the YC application.


Track B starts now
~20-25% of effort for the next month
But we are not building production Fable Sleight yet.
We're building:

Fable Sleight Preview
Its job is not to prove G+.
Its job is to prove:

  People understand the product, encounter the problem we're solving, and
  find the proposed workflow useful.

Think of it like the minimum interactive shell around capabilities that ALICE already
has or has already specified.


What the YC prototype should contain
Only four things.

                              🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                         398 / 456
1. Missions
User enters:

  Mission: Launch my startup

Then:

  Goal
  Launch beta

  Deadline
  March

  Current focus
  memory system

  Open questions
  pricing
  onboarding
  deployment


No autonomous Mission Graph magic required yet.
The user can explicitly organize this.


2. Decisions
User says:

  We decided to use local inference for private processing.

Fable stores:

  DECISION

  Use local inference
  for personal state

  WHY



                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter      399 / 456
  Privacy
  Lower cloud cost
  Offline operation

  DATE
  September 12


Later:

  Why did we choose local inference?

Fable retrieves the explicit decision.
Again, we do not need G+ to demonstrate this.


3. Persistent project context
Close the application.
Open it tomorrow.
Ask:

  Where were we?

Fable gives:

  MISSION
  Launch beta

  LAST PROGRESS
  Prototype completed

  OPEN DECISION
  Pricing

  BLOCKER
  Authentication

  NEXT STEP
  Finish auth flow


                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter   400 / 456
That's enough for someone to feel the continuity concept.


4. Simple evidence/history
Click a recommendation.
See:

  Why are you telling me this?

and get:

  Your stated goal
  Previous decision
  Relevant note
  Current deadline


Again - simple, explicit, inspectable.
No fake cognition.


Important: don't try to implement intelligent recall
yet
Suppose the user asks:

  “This feels like that NVIDIA situation again.”

Real Fable Sleight eventually needs G+ to decide autonomously what old memories
matter.
The YC preview doesn't.
It can use:

    explicitly selected mission context;
    simple search;
    explicit decision records;
    current project summaries;


                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                      401 / 456
    manual links.

That is fine because the preview is validating product behavior, not claiming the
final architecture already exists.
We clearly label it internally:

  PRODUCT VALIDATION PROTOTYPE - NOT THE FINAL COGNITIVE
  ARCHITECTURE

Then, when G+ finishes:

  manual/simple retrieval
           ↓
  gets replaced by
           ↓
  qualified intelligent recollection


No throwaway product UI.


This also respects the existing Fable governance
Your current product doctrine says Fable receives transferable ALICE capabilities and
must not silently outrun the flagship unless you explicitly authorize an exception.
Fortunately, the YC prototype does not require us to violate that.
Most of what it needs derives from capabilities already represented upstream:

    conversation;
    memory;
    Mission Graph contracts;
    Experience/decision lineage;
    evidence;
    public research;
    model abstraction.




                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                           402 / 456
The current roadmap already has those foundations before the later cognition/agency
phases.
We're productizing existing primitives.
Not giving Fable autonomous cognition before ALICE has it.


The next month
I would structure September like this.

Week 1 - Freeze the wedge
ALICE
Keep Stage G running.


Fable
Write a one-page commercial MVP contract.
Something approximately:

  Fable Sleight Preview helps technical builders keep long-running projects,
  goals, decisions, and reasoning continuous across AI conversations.

Exactly four MVP capabilities:
Missions
Decision history
Persistent project context
Evidence-backed recall
Nothing else.
We should also decide the first audience:

  technical builders working on long-running projects

not everyone alive.


Week 2 - Build the Preview
                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                         403 / 456
Build a local interactive prototype.
It doesn't need:

    accounts;
    billing;
    scaling;
    mobile;
    cloud infrastructure;
    ten integrations.

It needs one believable loop:

  create mission
         ↓
  talk
         ↓
  make decision
         ↓
  save history
         ↓
  close app
         ↓
  return
         ↓
  resume intelligently


If we can make this visually polished enough to record a 60-90 second demo, that's
sufficient for the application.


Week 2-3 - Customer discovery
At the same time, talk to approximately:

15-20 people
Preferably:

    founders;

                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                        404 / 456
    researchers;
    engineering students;
    PhD students;
    developers;
    people managing multiple technical projects.

Don't sell immediately.
Understand how they currently manage long-term AI work.
Questions like:

  How many AI chats are involved in one project?

  What happens when you return after two months?

  Do you remember why old technical decisions were made?

  Where do unresolved decisions live?

  Does your AI know what the project is ultimately trying to accomplish?

  What frustrates you most about continuing work across AI sessions?

Then show Fable.


Week 3 - Try to secure design partners
Target:

3-5 people
who say:

  “Yes, I'll use this when you give me the first build.”

That's enough.
If somebody says they'd pay, great.

                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                  405 / 456
If somebody actually wants to pay a deposit, even better.
But I would not optimize for money yet.
We're looking for evidence that the wedge hurts enough.


Week 4 - YC package
Then build the application around four pieces of evidence.

1. The moonshot
Fable Sleight eventually becomes a lifelong personal cognitive system.


2. The technical proof
A.L.I.C.E. exists and the architecture is actively being developed and evaluated.


3. The commercial wedge
The first paid product is mission continuity for technical builders.


4. Early market evidence
For example:

  18 target users interviewed.

  5 agreed to use the private preview.

  Main recurring pain: losing decisions/context across long-running AI-assisted
  projects.

Obviously use the actual numbers we obtain.
Don't invent anything.


What I want us to have on application day
Not this:



                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                            406 / 456
  100 users
  $5k MRR
  finished product


Instead:

  ✓ serious working research system

  ✓ clear technical architecture

  ✓ unusually ambitious end state

  ✓ polished consumer prototype

  ✓ 15-20 customer conversations

  ✓ 3-5 design partners

  ✓ narrow first customer

  ✓ pricing hypothesis

  ✓ credible 12-month launch plan

  ✓ demo video


That is a very respectable Early Decision YC application.
YC explicitly tells founders that it would be a mistake to wait for traction before
applying and says it funds companies with no product or revenue. (Y Combinator)
The bigger requirement is that we explain ourselves exceptionally clearly; YC's
application guidance says poor clarity causes promising startups to get passed over.
(Y Combinator)
That's why the prototype matters.
It makes our crazy vision understandable.


After the YC application
Then the balance changes slightly.

                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                             407 / 456
Months 1-3 after application
ALICE
Main priority
Finish Stage G.
Then begin G+.


Fable
Run the prototype with the 3-5 design partners.
Do mostly:

    UX improvements;
    mission flow;
    explicit project memory;
    decision tracking;
    bugs;
    product learning.

Do not spend months creating new intelligence architecture downstream.


Months 3-6
Assuming Stage G closes and G+ progresses:
Start integrating winning upstream capability.
For example:

  FABLE PREVIEW

  Explicit project context
  Simple retrieval
        │
        ▼

  G+ qualifies
  mission-aware retrieval


                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                408 / 456
  hybrid retrieval
  temporal recall
        │
        ▼

  FABLE ALPHA

  automatic relevant recollection


That's when the preview begins transforming into the real architecture.
Target:
10-30 active design users.
Still don't chase thousands.


Months 6-9
Closed alpha.
Now potentially add:

    GitHub integration;
    calendar;
    files;
    weekly mission review;
    unresolved threads;
    outcome check-ins;
    stronger retrieval.

At this point I'd begin testing pricing.
Maybe:
$15-20/month.
We don't need to lock that today.


Months 9-12

                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                 409 / 456
Goal:

first genuinely paid Fable Sleight release
Not the ultimate Fable.
Just:

  mission intelligence that people genuinely pay for.

Target indicators might be:

  50-200 active users

  20-50 paying users

  retention > acquisition vanity

  clear feature users come back for

  cloud inference economics understood


Those are directional goals, not YC promises.


Meanwhile ALICE keeps advancing
The beautiful part is that Fable never needs to stop while ALICE moves forward.
Think of ALICE as R&D upstream:

  ALICE
  Stage G
        │
        ▼
  G+
        │
        ▼
  Memory formation
        │
        ▼
  Host model
        │

                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                           410 / 456
        ▼
 Cognitive core
        │
        ▼
 Agency
        │
        ▼
 Learning


Every successful generalizable piece creates a Fable product opportunity:

 ALICE RESULT
      ↓
 generalize
      ↓
 productize
      ↓
 test with users
      ↓
 FABLE RELEASE


So eventually:

 ALICE                 FABLE

 G/G+              →   Mission continuity
 Phase 8           →   automatic learning
 Phase 9           →   personal judgment
 Phase 10          →   proactive missions
 Phase 11          →   computer use
 Phase 13          →   personal model adaptation
 Phase 14          →   persistent operating environment


The product grows alongside the research rather than waiting until Phase 15.


This slightly changes the roadmap language
I would not change the ALICE phase order.
I would change the Fable product track.



                         🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                         411 / 456
Currently the roadmap says the first signed local-ingestion alpha is around Phase 7
and the earliest credible closed alpha around Phase 8.
I think we should eventually update that to distinguish:


Fable Preview
Earlier.
Product validation only.
Uses already-qualified capabilities.


Fable Closed Alpha
Later.
Requires deeper memory automation.


Fable Public Beta
Later still.
Requires meaningful cognition/agency maturity.
That is much more precise.


The YC Early Decision piece
And yes, Spring 2027 Early Decision is a legitimate strategy.
YC currently says students can apply now for a later batch through Early Decision,
including batches after Fall 2026, and can specify which future batch they want. If
accepted, YC funds the company immediately and reserves the future batch. (Y
Combinator)
So our calendar should conceptually be:

  AUG 28
               │
               ├──── ALICE Stage G continues
               │
               └──── Fable Preview starts
                        │


                              🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                           412 / 456
  SEP
          │
          ├──── customer interviews
          ├──── prototype
          ├──── design partners
          └──── YC application
                   │
                   ▼
          SPRING 2027 EARLY DECISION


We should not make the application conditional on Stage G being finished.
Whatever Stage G state is true on submission day is exactly what we report.
No rushing evidence to hit a YC date.


Time allocation until the application
I would actually enforce this:

70% - ALICE / Stage G
Protect the technical moat.


20% - Fable prototype + user conversations
Create market evidence.


10% - YC application / website / demo
Communicate it properly.
Not:

  10% research
  80% website
  10% application


We've done enough website work for now.
The site is good enough to support the application.



                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                    413 / 456
Our marginal hour is much more valuable now in building and talking to people
than adding another animation.


One thing I'd start this week
Before we code Fable Preview, let's write:

FABLE SLEIGHT PREVIEW v0.1 PRODUCT CONTRACT
Probably a 3-5 page document covering:

    exact user;
    exact problem;
    four MVP behaviors;
    things explicitly out of scope;
    what is real vs simulated/manual;
    upstream ALICE dependencies;
    UX flow;
    design-partner experiment;
    success metrics;
    failure criteria;
    12-month productization path.

Then we can build from it without letting the prototype balloon into another ALICE-
sized project.
That is the next work item I recommend, while your other chat keeps Stage G
running exactly as it is.


  Sources

  Early Decision for Students | Y Combinator ycombinator.com

8/28/2026, 8:58:10 PM




                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                              414 / 456
One thing I'd start this week ============================= Before
we code Fable Preview, let's write: **FABLE SLEIGHT PREVIEW v0.1 PRODUCT
CONTRACT**
===============================================
Probably a 3–5 page document covering: * exact user; * exact problem; * four MVP
behaviors; * things explicitly out of scope; * what is real vs simulated/manual; *
upstream ALICE dependencies; * UX flow; * design-partner experiment; * success
metrics; * failure criteria; * 12-month productization path. Then we can build from it
without letting the prototype balloon into another ALICE-sized project. That is the
**next work item I recommend**, while your other chat keeps Stage G running
exactly as it is.

                             i think we gotta plan out the initial product more
                             thoroughly. as far i understand, the initial product is:
                             currenly, gpt, claude or other bots reach context
                             window and new chat cant preserve all info from old
                             chat, but our fable will use mission graph and connect
                             all the chats so that all chats are connecte and no need
                             to re configure a new chat each time, right?

                             if its true. that creates another problem. this initial
                             fable cant survive on its own. cause we not building all
                             the other models, tools and features it needs to
                             perform all the tasks on its own. it can just connect the
                             tasks thats just 1 feature we building it on. So, we gotta
                             use some wrapper system that maybe users can use
                             fable as a mcp to connect with bots like gpt or claude
                             and use it. am i right?
                                                                         8/28/2026, 9:07:51 PM




 Thinking
 ●
     Assessing the architecture
     I’m checking whether Fable should be an MCP server, a standalone relay, or both. The
     key distinction is that MCP exposes tools and context, while reliable cross-chat
     continuity needs routing, storage, identity, and client adapters.



                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                  415 / 456
   ●
       Assessed the architecture

  🌐 Searching the web
        modelcontextprotocol.io       help.openai.com   anthropic.com

   ●
       Refining Fable’s role
       You’re broadly right: Fable should begin as a continuity layer, not another chatbot. I’d
       build a core memory-and-mission service, expose it through MCP, and add lightweight
       adapters for clients that lack reliable read/write support.

  🌐 Searching the web
        github.com       era.app     secondbrainmemory.com    ao2.ai    memorylake.ai

        nevermind.wiki

   ●
       Searched 3 websites

  ✓ Worked for 53s


Yes - your intuition is basically right, with one important correction:

  The first Fable Sleight should not try to be the intelligence. It should be
  the continuity layer that lets existing intelligences work on one persistent
  mission.

GPT, Claude, Gemini, coding agents, etc. can provide the reasoning capability that
Fable itself does not yet have.
But I would not make Fable “just an MCP memory server.” That version is
already becoming crowded, and MCP alone cannot guarantee the behavior we need.

First, sharpen what the initial product actually solves
It's slightly more sophisticated than:

  “Connect every chat together.”

We don't want every chat connected to every other chat. That would eventually
become the same context-overload problem all over again.
Instead:



                                   🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                              416 / 456
  Chats belong to persistent Missions.

For example:

 MISSION
 Build startup MVP

 ├── Chat with Claude
 │   backend architecture
 │
 ├── Chat with GPT
 │   pricing research
 │
 ├── Claude Code session
 │   authentication implementation
 │
 ├── decision
 │   use local processing for private data
 │
 ├── open thread
 │   pricing still unresolved
 │
 └── outcome
     auth approach caused deployment issue


Each AI session is temporary.
The Mission survives.
So when you start a brand-new Claude conversation tomorrow, Fable can provide:

 WHAT THIS PROJECT IS

 WHAT YOU ARE TRYING TO ACHIEVE

 WHERE THINGS CURRENTLY STAND

 IMPORTANT DECISIONS + WHY

 OPEN QUESTIONS

 CURRENT BLOCKERS

                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                          417 / 456
  RELEVANT PAST EVENTS

  WHAT HAPPENED RECENTLY


The model gets a small Context Capsule, not your entire six-month history.
That is much closer to the real long-term architecture.


And yes: Fable v0.1 should use other models as its
brain
Conceptually:

                   FABLE SLEIGHT
                CONTINUITY KERNEL

                         │

         ┌─────────────┼─────────────┐
         │             │             │
         ▼             ▼             ▼

       Claude          GPT          other models
       reasoning      reasoning        reasoning

         │             │             │
         └─────────────┼─────────────┘
                       │
                       ▼

                FABLE MISSION STATE

                goals
                decisions
                history
                open threads
                outcomes
                evidence


That is actually a very good early product architecture.


                             🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                   418 / 456
We don't have to build:
coding intelligence
research intelligence
vision intelligence
frontier reasoning
formal math
computer use
yet.
Claude/GPT/etc. already provide much of that.
Fable provides something different:

  persistent continuity around whichever model you use.

And there's a really nice strategic consequence:


We can demonstrate model independence immediately.
A user could work with Claude today.
Switch to an OpenAI model tomorrow.
Fable still knows the project.
That gives an early tangible version of our long-term:

  model ≠ intelligence continuity

idea.


But MCP by itself is not enough
This is the important technical finding.
MCP absolutely fits this product. It was designed so servers can expose resources,
prompts and tools to AI applications. Servers can also be local or remote. (Model
Context Protocol)
Anthropic supports local MCP servers directly in Claude Desktop, and packages them
as one-click .mcpb desktop extensions. (Anthropic)


                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                         419 / 456
So this works:

  Claude Desktop
        │
        │ MCP
        ▼
  Fable Sleight
        │
        ▼
  Mission state


And Fable could expose tools such as:

  get_mission_context
  record_decision
  record_outcome
  record_open_thread
  update_mission
  search_mission_history
  create_handoff
  get_current_state


Great.


However, MCP has a fundamental limitation
An MCP server doesn't automatically see the whole conversation.
The MCP specification intentionally isolates servers: the host controls what context
reaches them, and servers generally cannot simply read the host application's full
conversation history. (Model Context Protocol)
Tools are also model-controlled. In other words, the model decides when to call
them. (Model Context Protocol)
So imagine this:

  Ari tells Claude:

  "We decided to abandon architecture A
  and use B because latency was too high."



                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                           420 / 456
If Claude never calls:

  fable.record_decision(...)


Fable may never know.
That's a problem.
We need reliable capture, not:

  “hopefully Claude remembers to call our memory tool.”


This means Fable needs a small application of its
own
Not an AI capable of doing everything.
A continuity host.
I would build:

Fable Core
Local background service.
Owns:

  Missions
  Decisions
  Threads
  Events
  Evidence
  Outcomes
  Context Capsules


Then Fable has multiple interfaces around that same core.

                         FABLE CORE

             persistent mission continuity
                          │
             ┌────────────┼────────────┐
             │            │            │

                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter   421 / 456
              ▼                ▼          ▼

        FABLE APP          MCP           API/SDK
           │                │
           │                │
        Claude API      Claude Desktop    future
        OpenAI API      Claude Code       clients
        other APIs      Cursor etc.


This is the architecture I recommend.


Fable App is not another ChatGPT competitor
This distinction is crucial.
The Fable app can look like a chat application.
But underneath it:

  User
    │
    ▼
  Fable
    │
    ├── Mission state
    │
    ├── Context selection
    │
    ├── Decision history
    │
    └── Outcome capture
    │
    ▼
  CHOOSE MODEL

  Claude
  GPT
  future model


So we're not training or building the reasoning model.
Fable says:


                               🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter   422 / 456
  “For this turn, here is what the model needs to know.”

Then sends:

  current user message
  +
  relevant mission context
  +
  important decisions
  +
  open threads
  +
  required evidence


to Claude or GPT.
The answer returns.
Then Fable observes the entire interaction, because it is the host.
That allows Fable to reliably identify:

  new decision?
  new constraint?
  mission updated?
  thread resolved?
  new blocker?
  important result?


instead of relying on an external client to remember to call MCP.
That is a major advantage.


It also solves the ChatGPT problem
Current MCP support isn't uniform across products.
Claude Desktop is particularly friendly to local MCP. (Anthropic)
ChatGPT currently connects directly to remote MCP servers rather than arbitrary local
MCP servers; private/local servers require additional tunneling infrastructure. Full
modify/write MCP support is currently rolling out mainly for Business, Enterprise and
Edu, while some other tiers have more limited capabilities. (OpenAI Help Center)

                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                         423 / 456
So I would not make our consumer MVP dependent on every AI vendor
implementing MCP identically.
Instead:


Primary mode

  Fable App
     ↓
  OpenAI API / Anthropic API



Bonus integration

  Claude Desktop
     ↓ MCP
  Fable Core


Later:

  ChatGPT
  Gemini
  Cursor
  Codex
  Claude Code
  other MCP hosts


can attach to the same Fable state wherever their integrations permit it.


One problem: API usage
There is friction with the first mode.
A ChatGPT subscription doesn't automatically mean someone's OpenAI API calls are
free.
Same for Claude subscription vs Anthropic API.
So the earliest technical-user preview can be:


Bring Your Own Key

                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                      424 / 456
User supplies:

  Anthropic API key
  and/or
  OpenAI API key


Fable doesn't pay their inference bill.
That's fine for:
5 design partners.
20 design partners.
Maybe even an early technical alpha.
It's not ideal for a mass consumer product.
Later:

  Fable Pro
  $X/month

  includes:
  Fable software
  +
  included inference allowance
  +
  local models
  +
  smart routing


But we absolutely do not need billing economics solved for the YC prototype.


There's another reason not to make “MCP
memory” the product
I checked the current ecosystem.
There are already multiple systems doing:

  one persistent memory across Claude, ChatGPT and other agents.



                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                       425 / 456
The official MCP ecosystem itself has a basic Knowledge Graph Memory Server
specifically designed to let Claude remember information across chats. (GitHub)
There are open-source MCP servers such as mcp-memory providing persistent graph
memory and semantic search. (GitHub)
And commercial products now literally advertise:

  “One memory, every agent.”

Era Context says connected agents share one memory across Claude, ChatGPT and
others. (Era) AO2 similarly sells portable memory across Claude, ChatGPT, Codex and
other clients through MCP/API/SDK. (AO2)
So if we launch:

“Fable gives ChatGPT and Claude shared
memory!”
we have recreated an existing product category.
That's not enough.


Our product needs to be one level above memory
This makes the earlier Mission idea even more important.
Compare:


Generic MCP memory

  Remember:
  Rayan prefers Python.

  Remember:
  Project X uses PostgreSQL.

  Remember:
  Meeting is Tuesday.


versus Fable:


                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                           426 / 456
  MISSION
  Launch Project X

  WHY
  Validate paid demand before October.

  CURRENT PLAN
  Private beta.

  DECISION
  Use architecture B.

  WHY
  Two-week implementation advantage.

  ASSUMPTION
  Initial volume < 1,000 users.

  OPEN THREAD
  Need to choose pricing.

  CONFLICT
  Research commitment overlaps launch week.

  OUTCOME
  Architecture B saved development time
  but deployment became harder.

  NEXT DECISION
  Whether to keep B for public beta.


That is not simply memory.
It's:

persistent project state
and eventually:

persistent cognitive state

                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter   427 / 456
That's much more defensible.


So I would slightly change our short-term product
pitch
Not:

  Fable Sleight gives AI long-term memory.

Too crowded.
Not:

  Fable connects all your AI chats.

Useful, but also increasingly crowded.
Instead:

Your work shouldn't belong to the chat.
Or:

One project. Any model. No restart.
And the product explanation:

  Fable Sleight keeps the goals, decisions, open questions and history of a
  long-running project outside any one AI conversation. Work with Claude
  today and another model tomorrow without rebuilding the project from
  scratch.

That's much more specific.


Exact Fable Preview architecture
I would now define v0.1 like this:

  ┌─────────────────────────────────────────────┐
  │                FABLE SLEIGHT                │


                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                 428 / 456
 │                                              │
 │                Mission Workspace             │
 │                                              │
 │ Goal                                         │
 │ Current state                                │
 │ Decisions                                    │
 │ Open threads                                 │
 │ Constraints                                  │
 │ Outcomes                                     │
 │ Evidence                                     │
 └──────────────────────┬──────────────────────┘
                         │
                   FABLE CORE
                         │
          ┌──────────────┼──────────────┐
          │              │              │
          ▼              ▼              ▼
   Context Compiler Event Capture    Mission Store
          │              │              │
          └──────────────┼──────────────┘
                         │
                         ▼
                   MODEL ADAPTERS
                         │
            ┌────────────┼────────────┐
            ▼            ▼            ▼
         Claude         GPT          future


And separately:

 Claude Desktop / Code
         │
         │ MCP
         ▼
      Fable Core


Same memory.
Same mission.
Same decisions.


                         🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter   429 / 456
Same project.


A concrete experience
Imagine Ari starts Fable.
He creates:

Build Fable Sleight Preview
Then selects:
Claude
He spends two hours discussing architecture.
Claude recommends:

  Use SQLite for the first local prototype.

Ari agrees.
Fable records:

  DECISION
  Use simple local persistence for prototype.

  RATIONALE
  Fast implementation.
  Single user.
  No distributed requirement yet.


Tomorrow he changes model:


OpenAI model
New model.
Completely fresh context window.
Ari asks:

  What should we work on next?


                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter   430 / 456
Fable compiles:

 MISSION
 Build Fable Preview.

 CURRENT STATE
 Mission UI complete.
 Persistence architecture selected.

 DECISIONS
 Use simple local persistence.

 OPEN THREADS
 Context-capsule generation.
 MCP interface.

 CURRENT BLOCKER
 No automatic end-of-turn capture yet.


The OpenAI model can continue immediately.
That's the demo.
It is extremely understandable.


Then test MCP
Ari opens Claude Desktop instead.
Claude asks Fable:

 fable.get_mission_context(
     "Build Fable Sleight Preview"
 )


and gets the same state.
Now we demonstrate:

 FABLE APP
      ↕
 CLAUDE
      ↕

                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter   431 / 456
  OPENAI
       ↕
  CLAUDE DESKTOP

           all share

  ONE MISSION


That's compelling.


And this changes the MVP feature list
I would no longer say the first four capabilities are simply Missions / Decisions /
Context / Evidence.
I'd define five tightly connected systems:

MVP component                                 Job

Mission Workspace                             persistent objective and state

Decision Ledger                               choices + rationale

Open Threads                                  unresolved questions/blockers

Context Compiler                              creates model-sized handoff capsules

Model Bridge                                  Claude/OpenAI + MCP integrations


That's enough.
No world model.
No host model.
No autonomous learning.
No computer-use agent.
No personality system.
No multimodal intelligence.


We can even postpone G+

                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                              432 / 456
This is important for our workflow.
The early Fable product doesn't need G+ to exist.
Initially:

  User explicitly selects mission
          ↓
  Fable knows mission
          ↓
  simple retrieval inside that mission
          ↓
  Context Capsule


Then later:

  G+ finishes
         ↓
  Fable no longer relies only on
  explicit mission context
         ↓
  it can determine which historical
  experience actually matters now


So:


Preview
explicit continuity


Future Fable
intelligent continuity
This makes the development sequence much cleaner.


What about conversations outside the Fable app?
Three levels.


Level 1 - Fable-native


                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter   433 / 456
Best reliability.
Everything passes through Fable.
Automatic capture.
Automatic context.
Switch models freely.


Level 2 - MCP-connected clients
Claude Desktop, Claude Code and other compatible hosts.
Fable exposes mission memory as resources/tools.
Good interoperability.
Less lifecycle control than our own client.


Level 3 - unsupported external bots
Generate a:

Fable Handoff Capsule
Example:

  Copy context


Paste it into any model.
Later import the resulting conversation or manually record the outcome.
Not elegant.
But universal fallback.
That's enough for v0.1.


Long term, the architecture elegantly flips
At first:

  FABLE
  continuity


                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                  434 / 456
     │
     ▼
  CLAUDE / GPT
  does most cognition


As ALICE research progresses:

  FABLE
  continuity
  memory
  host model
  judgment
  planning
  skills
  agency
  learning
     │
     ▼
  EXTERNAL MODELS
  become replaceable
  reasoning components


Eventually the external LLM becomes exactly what we originally wanted:

  one replaceable engine inside a much larger personal intelligence.

That means the MVP architecture isn't a hack.
It's actually an early form of the final architecture.


So: are you right?
Yes - very much so.
Your initial concern is real:

  If Fable only has Mission continuity, it cannot independently research, code, reason,
  plan and solve arbitrary user problems.

But it doesn't need to.


                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                          435 / 456
The better MVP is:

  Fable owns continuity. Existing models provide intelligence.

The one change I'd make to your proposal is:

  Do not make MCP itself the product. Make Fable Core the product, and
  MCP one of its interfaces.

Otherwise we're dependent on client behavior, tool invocation and vendor MCP
support-and we're entering an already crowded “shared AI memory” category.
I think our next step should now be to write the actual Fable Sleight Preview v0.1
architecture/product contract around this design, because this is much more
concrete than the version we were discussing before. It should define the five
components, model adapters, MCP interface, Context Capsule format, mission data
model, capture lifecycle, UX, what we can build before G+, and exactly what gets
replaced/upgraded when G+ eventually lands.


  Sources

  Overview - Model Context Protocol modelcontextprotocol.io

  Introducing the Model Context Protocol \ Anthropic anthropic.com

  Developer mode and MCP apps in ChatGPT | OpenAI Help Center help.openai.com

  servers/src/memory/README.md at main ·                                github.com
  modelcontextprotocol/servers · GitHub

  Cross-agent memory, Context era.app

  AO2 Memory — Portable context for every AI ao2.ai

8/28/2026, 9:08:01 PM




                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                         436 / 456
                              ok. changed my mind. even the initial fable should not
                              have any compromize. yes it will have only 1 feature:
                              the mission graph, but it will have the exact same
                              mission graph plan as alice. if we doing just 1 feature,
                              we better do it perfectly. if we compromize even in that
                              1 feature thats too bad. doesnt matter if it takes a bit
                              longer. if you think we should start builing the initial
                              fable after G+ for the perfect condition, we'll do it after
                              G+.
                                                                           8/28/2026, 9:17:35 PM




  Thinking
  ●
      Assessing mission timing
      I’m concluding that a genuinely complete Mission Graph should start after G+ finishes.
      The graph’s structure can be built earlier, but perfect continuity depends on G+
      selecting the right mission state and history without compromise.
  ●
      Assessed mission timing

  ✓ Worked for 10s


Then I agree with the change.
If the first Fable Sleight product contains only one real capability, that capability
should be the full Mission Graph experience we actually intend to keep, not a
disposable “project memory” approximation.
And that changes when we should start building it.

I would not build the Fable Mission product now
Right now we're still in Stage G determining whether the underlying long-term
memory substrate is good enough.
And the Mission Graph product we want ultimately depends on more than storing this:




                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                  437 / 456
 Mission
 ├── Goal
 ├── Decision
 └── Note


The real version needs to support something closer to:

 MISSION
 │
 ├── identity
 ├── objective
 ├── state
 │
 ├── sub-missions
 │
 ├── dependencies
 ├── conflicts
 ├── blockers
 ├── constraints
 │
 ├── decisions
 │   ├── rationale
 │   ├── evidence
 │   └── expected outcome
 │
 ├── unresolved threads
 │
 ├── people / entities
 │
 ├── relevant experiences
 │
 ├── outcomes
 │
 ├── corrections
 │
 ├── result capsules
 │
 ├── history / supersession
 │
 └── links to other missions


                         🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter   438 / 456
And critically:

  It needs to know which parts of that enormous history matter to the
  current conversation.

That's where G+ enters.


Why G+ is now a hard dependency
Suppose Ari's mission has existed for eight months.
There may be:

    240 conversations;
    70 decisions;
    30 documents;
    15 people;
    12 sub-missions;
    80 unresolved/resolved threads;
    hundreds of events.

A new Claude conversation asks:

  “Should we change the deployment architecture?”

A compromised MVP could simply dump:

  “Here is the project summary.”

But that's precisely what you no longer want.
The proper Fable experience should reconstruct something like:

  CURRENT QUESTION
  deployment architecture

           ↓


                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter               439 / 456
 CURRENT MISSION
 launch Fable preview

          ↓

 RELEVANT SUB-MISSION
 production deployment

          ↓

 RELATED DECISIONS
 why architecture B was selected

          ↓

 ASSUMPTION
 initial traffic < 1,000 users

          ↓

 NEW EVIDENCE
 traffic expectation changed

          ↓

 OPEN THREAD
 whether local-first architecture
 still satisfies deployment needs

          ↓

 RELATED OUTCOME
 previous deployment issue

          ↓

 CONTEXT CAPSULE
 only the relevant pieces


That's no longer merely Mission Graph storage.

                         🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter   440 / 456
It's:

   Mission Graph + intelligent recollection + context composition.

And intelligent recollection is exactly the G+ problem.
So if we insist on no shortcuts, yes: G+ needs to come first.


But there's another gate after G+
This distinction matters.
Our sequence should not become:

  G+
  ↓
  ship Fable immediately


Remember the migration architecture we've already established.
The current sequence is:

  Stage G
     ↓
  Stage G+
     ↓
  post-G+ reconciliation
     ↓
  H - canary
     ↓
  I - cutover
     ↓
  J - rollback / recovery proof
     ↓
  owner acceptance
     ↓
  successor architecture governs


And the consumer-product doctrine says Fable receives capabilities after they have
been implemented, evaluated and approved upstream, rather than becoming
the experimental leader.


                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                      441 / 456
So I would separate:


When Fable engineering can start
After G+ freezes the winning cognitive-memory architecture.


When Fable can become a serious release candidate
After the relevant ALICE capability has passed its upstream
acceptance/cutover gates.
That preserves the rule we've been adamant about:

  Fable does not lead ALICE.


Our new workflow
This is actually cleaner.

NOW
Stage G only.
Main engineering focus:

  ALICE

  Stage G
  ├── personality qualification
  ├── memory substrate
  ├── correction/deletion
  ├── provenance/authority
  ├── failure/recovery
  └── recall baseline


No Fable backend.
No rushed Mission Graph implementation.
No second codebase consuming attention.


During Stage G
                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter     442 / 456
We can work on Fable, but only at the specification level.
Things that don't compromise architecture:


Product research
Talk to prospective users.
Understand how they currently manage long projects across Claude/GPT/etc.


UX research
Design what an ideal Mission interface should feel like.


Mission Graph product specification
Freeze things like:

  What is a Mission?

  What is a sub-mission?

  What counts as a decision?

  What is an unresolved thread?

  What does resolved mean?

  How do missions conflict?

  How are dependencies represented?

  How are mission states changed?

  How does history remain inspectable?

  How should AI sessions attach?

  What does a handoff look like?

  What can a user manually override?



                             🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                  443 / 456
YC material
Show the architecture and planned commercial wedge.
None of that requires prematurely implementing the engine.


Then Stage G closes
Now we know:

  The past can survive correctly.

Then:

G+
This is where we solve:

  Which past matters now?

And because we've done the competitor research, G+ is not just “let's make a vector
search.”
It's the proper qualification program:

  semantic
  +
  lexical
  +
  entity
  +
  temporal
  +
  graph
  +
  mission relevance
  +
  active thread relevance
  +
  authority
  +


                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                       444 / 456
  context budgeting
  +
  associative recall
  +
  deliberate recollection


with competing architectures and benchmarks.
Once that finishes, we know what the actual memory-attention layer should be.


Then Fable v1 engineering starts
At that point we're no longer guessing.
And I would give the project a strict rule:

Fable Mission v1 = the full transferable ALICE
Mission Graph capability
Not:

  “simplified consumer Mission Graph.”

Not:

  “we'll redo this later.”

Same semantic contracts.
Same state machine.
Same lineage.
Same retrieval semantics.
Same Result Capsules.
Same mission relationships.
Same attention model.
Different:

    UI;


                             🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                      445 / 456
    onboarding;
    host identity;
    integrations;
    packaging;
    product defaults.

But not a different cognitive architecture.
This directly matches the existing Fable doctrine: the consumer system receives the
same generalizable Mission Graph and Cognitive Workspace destination rather than a
reduced substitute.


This also changes the initial product
Earlier we were saying:

  Mission continuity is the first product.

That's still correct.
But I'd now describe the actual v1 much more ambitiously:

Fable Sleight Missions
One persistent project intelligence across any number of AI
sessions.
The product owns:

  MISSIONS
       │
       ├── objectives
       ├── hierarchy
       ├── dependencies
       ├── conflicts
       ├── state
       ├── constraints
       └── priority



                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                        446 / 456
 DECISIONS
      │
      ├── evidence
      ├── reasoning
      ├── assumptions
      └── outcomes

 THREADS
      │
      ├── unresolved
      ├── waiting
      ├── blocked
      └── resolved

 EXPERIENCES
      │
      ├── conversations
      ├── files
      ├── tool results
      └── external events

 RECOLLECTION
      │
      └── what matters right now?

 WORKSPACE
      │
      └── what should enter the current context?


Then external models can still serve as reasoning engines:

                      FABLE SLEIGHT
                         MISSIONS
                            │
                   Cognitive Workspace
                            │
                      Context Capsule
                            │
         ┌──────────────────┼──────────────────┐




                         🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter       447 / 456
         ▼                    ▼                ▼
       Claude                GPT            others


But now the Context Capsule isn't a crude summary.
It's produced by our qualified G+ cognitive retrieval system.
That's the difference.


It would be genuinely compelling
Imagine using Claude for three months.
Then switching to GPT.
You create a fresh chat.
Fable tells the model:

  This conversation belongs to Launch Product.

It doesn't dump three months of text.
It reconstructs:

  MISSION
  Launch product by June.

  CURRENT STATE
  Private beta complete.

  CURRENT PRIORITY
  Fix retention before acquisition.

  RELEVANT DECISIONS
  Annual pricing postponed until retention is measured.

  UNRESOLVED
  Whether onboarding complexity is causing churn.

  RECENT OUTCOME
  New onboarding reduced setup time 41%.

  RELATED HISTORY

                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter       448 / 456
  A similar retention issue appeared during Alpha 2.

  IMPORTANT CONSTRAINT
  Do not increase cloud inference cost above target margin.


Then Claude can simply continue.
That's a serious product.


And because we're doing it properly, I would not
call it an MCP product either
MCP remains an interface.
Not the architecture.
Eventually:

                         FABLE CORE

                       FULL MISSION GRAPH
                             +
                      G+ RECOLLECTION
                             +
                     COGNITIVE WORKSPACE

                              │

              ┌───────────────┼───────────────┐
              │               │               │

       Fable UI             MCP             API/SDK
           │                  │                │
           ▼                  ▼                ▼
        models           external AI        ecosystem


So even v1 already reflects the eventual model-independent architecture.


What this means for YC next month
This is important:



                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                  449 / 456
It is okay that Fable v1 won't exist yet.
We should not sabotage the technical direction just to show YC a rushed app.
Our application story becomes:

  Our long-term goal is a lifelong personal cognitive system. We're currently
  qualifying its long-term memory architecture. The first consumer product
  will expose one piece of that system extremely well: the full Mission
  Graph, allowing long-running work to remain continuous across AI
  sessions and even across underlying models. We will start productizing it
  once the memory/recollection architecture passes our current G/G+
  qualification, rather than shipping a disposable approximation that we
  would have to replace later.

That's actually a coherent founder decision.
But I would add:

  We are validating the product before the implementation is finished.

Meaning over the next month:

    interviews;
    mockups;
    interactive Figma prototype;
    landing page;
    Mission workflow tests;
    prospective design partners.

So YC doesn't hear:

  “We'll start thinking about users someday.”

They hear:




                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                  450 / 456
  “The production architecture is gated by current R&D. Product discovery
  is already underway.”


Updated work allocation
Until YC:


80% Stage G
Keep the critical path moving.

10% Fable Mission product specification + UX
No implementation.
Detailed exact contract.


10% users + YC
Interviews, validation, application, demo materials.
After Stage G:

  Stage G complete
          ↓

  \~85% G+
  \~15% Fable UX/user validation


After G+:

  G+ champion frozen
          ↓
  FABLE ENGINEERING STARTS

  ALICE migration gates continue
          │
          │
          ├───────────────┐
          ▼               ▼



                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter               451 / 456
  H/I/J                  Fable implementation
                         against qualified contracts


Those can happen partly in parallel because by then the architecture is no longer
moving underneath Fable every day.


I want one more product principle
This should probably become ratified:

  No-disposable-cognition rule
  Fable Sleight may ship a narrower capability set than the long-term destination, but
  any cognitive capability it does ship must use the same generalizable semantic
  architecture intended for the final system unless an explicitly temporary
  compatibility layer is documented with a removal path.

That gives us a useful distinction:

Narrow is okay.
Fable v1 might only have Missions.


Fake/reduced architecture is not okay.
Its Mission Graph shouldn't be a glorified project table because we're in a hurry.
I think that is exactly the philosophy you just described.


So the new timeline is
  NOW
  ─────────────────────────────
  Stage G
  Fable Mission specification
  user research
  YC application

               ↓

  G COMPLETE

                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                             452 / 456
 ─────────────────────────────
 G+
 Fable UX refinement
 design partners

                 ↓

 G+ COMPLETE
 ─────────────────────────────
 freeze qualified architecture

                 ↓

 START FABLE ENGINEERING
 ─────────────────────────────
 full Mission Graph
 full intelligent recollection
 full Cognitive Workspace
 model bridge / MCP
 consumer UX

 while upstream:
 H → I → J → acceptance

                 ↓

 FABLE CLOSED ALPHA
 ─────────────────────────────
 after relevant upstream
 capability is approved

                 ↓

 PAID PRODUCT


So yes: if we're only going to ship one feature, build that one feature like we
intend to keep it for ten years.
We don't need to compromise the core just because YC is next month. The thing we
should accelerate for YC is clarity and user validation, not the architecture.
8/28/2026, 9:17:46 PM


                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                        453 / 456
 **No-disposable-cognition rule** -------------------------------- Fable Sleight may ship a
 narrower capability set than the long-term destination, but any cognitive capability it
 does ship must use the same generalizable semantic architecture intended for the
 final system unless an explicitly temporary compatibility layer is documented with a
 removal path.

                              agreed. ratify it and save in your memory. Also, I
                              believe earlier in this chat we agreed on changing the
                              current G+ after reviewing the competing companies
                              and learning from their architecture. And you said we'll
                              do that change after stage G is done. Are we sticking
                              with that plan?
                                                                         8/28/2026, 9:23:06 PM




Yes. I’m treating the No-Disposable-Cognition Rule as a governing Fable Sleight
product rule, not a casual preference. I’m persisting it in the repo as a small ratified
governance addendum rather than rewriting the still-in-flight G/G+ architecture.
8/28/2026, 9:23:16 PM




Yes. We are sticking with that plan.
I’m treating the No-Disposable-Cognition Rule as ratified for this project:

  Fable Sleight may launch with a narrower capability set, but any cognitive
  capability it ships must use the same generalizable semantic architecture
  intended for the final system unless a temporary compatibility layer is
  explicitly documented with a removal path.

I also saved a durable ratification record here:
No-Disposable-Cognition Ratification
I attempted to add it directly to the ALICE GitHub repo as a governance document, but
the GitHub integration returned a 403 , so I did not modify the repo. I also can't



                           🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                                 454 / 456
independently write new permanent ChatGPT memory from this interface, so the file is
the durable record for now.
And yes, the G+ plan remains exactly as we agreed after the competitor
architecture audit:

  STAGE G - CURRENT
  │
  │ Do not redesign in the middle of qualification.
  │
  ├─ durable memory substrate
  ├─ authority / provenance
  ├─ correction / deletion
  ├─ recovery / rebuild
  └─ long-horizon recall baseline
          ↓
  STAGE G ACCEPTED
          ↓
  FREEZE G BASELINE
          ↓
  REVISE / FREEZE G+ SPEC
  using competitor-informed research
          ↓
  RUN G+ CHAMPION / CHALLENGER BAKEOFF
          ↓
  SELECT WINNING COGNITIVE-MEMORY ARCHITECTURE
          ↓
  POST-G+ ARCHITECTURE RECONCILIATION
          ↓
  FABLE MISSION ENGINEERING CAN START


The critical detail is that we do not change Stage G now based on Mem0,
Hindsight, Graphiti, Sentience, etc. Stage G needs to remain experimentally clean.
What changes after Stage G closes is the exact G+ experimental program.
G+ will no longer be a vague “build smarter retrieval” stage. It will explicitly make our
architecture compete against the strongest ideas we found:

    hybrid semantic + lexical + entity retrieval;
    temporal retrieval;


                          🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                              455 / 456
    bounded graph/associative expansion;
    mission-aware salience;
    active unresolved-thread relevance;
    context-aware reranking;
    adaptive retrieval budgets;
    automatic recall vs deliberate recollection;
    context fusion/allocation;
    deep archival recollection where necessary.

And we test those mechanisms against the frozen Stage-G baseline rather than
assuming any competitor's architecture is automatically better.
The winner becomes ALICE's qualified recollection architecture.
Only then do we start implementing Fable Sleight's first commercial capability-the full
transferable Mission Graph/Cognitive Workspace experience-on top of that qualified
foundation.
So our current priority stays very simple:
1. Finish Stage G properly.
2. Do not start Fable backend engineering yet.
3. In parallel, we can refine the Fable Mission product specification, UX, user
research, and YC story.
4. Immediately after Stage G, formalize the competitor-informed G+ spec
before executing G+.
5. After G+ freezes the architecture, begin Fable Mission engineering.
That is still the cleanest path.
8/28/2026, 9:23:58 PM




                            🚀 Powered by ChatGPT Exporter                          456 / 456
